The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu has urged the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart Atiku Abubakar to focus on resolving their internal crisis. “The PDP should pay attention to resolving their internal crisis, they failed to fulfill all their internal promises,” Tinubu’s spokesman Tunde Rahman told BBC. “They should stop the propaganda campaign on Muslim-Muslim ticket, amongst others.” Rahman was reacting to a statement by Atiku, a former vice president, where he said Tinubu is not prepared to be president. READ ALSO: Tinubu submits name of running mate to INEC Atiku, who announced Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate last week, said the office of the presidency does not need someone who hesitates to make decision choosing his vice-presidential candidate. The former vice president said Tinubu and other candidates lack clarity and inability to make decisions at a critical time to pick their permanent running mates. “The office of the presidency needs someone who has the clarity to make decisions without hesitation,” Atiku said. “In developed democratic countries, the process and picking of a running mate by a presidential candidate is a step to understanding the capacity of a candidate and his capability to do the job.” READ ALSO: Atiku dumps Wike, chooses Okowa as running mate for presidential election Tinubu last week said he said he has submitted the name of his running mate for the 2023 Presidential election to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The former Lagos State governor’s media office said he “has returned his duly completed nomination nomination forms to INEC. The forms were returned on Wednesday June 15, two days ahead of schedule.” Tinubu and APC leaders resolved to pick one Kabir Ibrahim Masari, a Katsina politician, as a placeholder for his running mate to beat INEC deadline. Sources told The Guardian that APC will withdraw Masari’s name and replace it with the tentative running mate for Tinubu in the 2023 presidential election due for February 2023. 