Unemployment occurs when those who are qualified, able, and willing to work are unable to find adequate paid labour. Unemployment is one of Nigeria’s most serious difficulties, as it has contributed to insecurity, kidnapping, banditry, trafficking, and other crimes in the country. There is scarcely any well-performing sector that can absorb or reduce unemployment, resulting in a high degree of poverty that drives many young people to participate in criminal activities. Upon graduation, each Nigerian graduate expects to find a well-paying job, but the reality in the Nigerian labor market has shown different, with no serious career opportunities available after the required National Youth Services Corps (NYSC) program. Several reasons contribute to Nigeria’s high unemployment rate, which has posed a great threat to the country’s massive population. Another concern is corruption since favoritism and nepotism have become important criteria for employability and substitution in both the commercial and public sectors. Jobs are no longer awarded on the basis of merit, and well-qualified have been refused employment in any sector of the government. Because of Nigeria’s high unemployment rate, many unemployed people, particularly graduates have turned to other sources of income, such as entrepreneurship, freelancing, and other petty trades.   Although finding a job in Nigeria can be difficult, this is not all due to a lack of paying jobs; rather, it is due to a lack of access to these jobs. Hubforjobs tackles this challenge by compiling data from leading recruitment companies and job postings. Job searchers who utilize our site have a better chance of finding work. Hubforjobs, like other job search websites, compiles and lists available remote and local postings, much like classified advertisements did in the past. Our website is one of the greatest and most reliable alternatives to look for and apply to dozens of possibilities, with thousands of listings and additional tools like career coaching, resume customizing, and blog entries full of helpful ideas. Visit Hubforjobs.com Today. Sign up as an Employer or a job seeker on one of Nigeria’s largest employment platforms. Follow us on social media. Facebook: @hubforjobsofficial Instagram: @hubforjobs Twitter: @hubforjobs LinkedIn @HubForJobs