Beating Sao Tome 10 -0 is not a yardstick to measure a coach Former Nigerian international, Bright Omokaro and Etim Esin, have advised Super Eagles coach, Jose Peseiro, to work on developing a unique pattern that will make the team outstanding and capable of withstanding the best sides in the world. Esin said the Super Eagles’ major problem over the years has been the inability to get a coach good enough to fashion out a winning pattern for the team using the country’s best available players. He said the country doesn’t seem to have got it right, pointing at the two losses Super Eagles suffered against Mexico and Ecuador in friendly matches under Peseiro. Esin said Nigeria is still facing the same issues it had during the Gernot Rohr era, adding that the 10-0 defeat of Sao Tome & Principe is not a yardstick to measure Peseiro true coaching competence. “The victory against Sao Tome did not come as surprise. A small Island that is just trying to play soccer at the international level concedes 15 goals in two matches shows the nation is trying to build a team. “My major concern is what the Eagles can do when they battle teams with high-quality players and coaching techniques. You can see how the Eagles struggled against Sierra Leone at the AFCON qualifier and suffered losses in the two friendly games. “The new Eagles coach should make Eagles play good football… he should not allow the victory against Sao Tome get into his head. I want to see a Super Eagles playing quality football and beating big teams,” he said. To Omokaro, Peseiro failed a big test when he refused to use home-based players against a team like Sao Tome and Principe. However, if the players had raised the standard of their game they would have qualified for the World Cup. “They lost their two friendly games, which does not show that the Eagles are in top form to face big challenges. “We waste so much money inviting many foreign-based players for matches players in the local league can win,” he said. Omokaro advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to allow home-based players to prosecute the return leg of the game against Sao Tome, adding that such a move will give the local stars a sense of belonging.