• Arrests notorious terrorist informant The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has said that troops killed at least 35 suspected Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) members and Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) during counter-insurgency operations in the six geo-political zones between May 19 and June 2, 2022. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, made the disclosure, yesterday, at the DHQ, Abuja. He noted that within the period under review, the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) and other security operatives conducted successful land, maritime and air operations across the country. According to him, troops also rescued 100 terrorists’ family members, including 33 women. Onyeuko said troops of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), in conjunction with the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) conducted aggressive patrol, ambushes and clearance operations in the North East, which led the terrorists to flee in disarray, abandoning their properties and family members. Cumulatively, troops recovered 10 AK-47 rifles, five AK-56 rifles, two FN rifles, a PKM gun and AA guns, as well as 227 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, seven AK-47 magazines, 164 rounds of AA ammunition, 111 Shilka ammunition, a gun truck, a shilka barrel, two Dane guns, two Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), a car engine, four trollies and one water pump, he added. “Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) conducted a non-kinetic operation in North West, trained and graduated 122 local vigilantes to assist the security agencies to ensure the security of hinterlands in Sanga Local Council of Kaduna State, charged them to be good ambassadors of their communities and discharge their duties effectively devoid of sentiment. “The Force Commander also held peace meetings at OPSH headquarters with Bemood Fulani Stakeholders to sustain peace in the area. The meeting was centred on the killing and rustling of cattle at Kuru area in Jos South Local Council of Plateau,” he said, urging the herders to be patient, as efforts are ongoing to recover the cows. Troops also rescued 152 civilians, neutralised 18 bandits and apprehended 25, The Guardian gathered. Accordingly, all arrested, rescued civilians and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action. THE statement also reads: “Troops arrested a notorious foreign terrorist informant, Jabe Buba, at Garuwa village in Tambuwa Local Council of Sokoto State. Pictures and video of him posting rifles in the forest were found in his phone and N130,000 cash was recovered from him. “Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) conducted several operations in a gun battle. The leader of the group, one  Odada, and two other the kidnappers in military uniform were neutralised.” He commended the support of the media for their professionalism and unbiased reportage. “I wish to state that national security is a collective responsibility to every Nigerian,” he noted.