We won’t surrender to insecurity, says Masari Katsina State Police Command, yesterday, said it neutralised two terrorists and foiled their heinous mission at Sabon Dawa village, Zakka District in Safana Local Council. The spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, said the incident occurred about 05:00 p.m. on Tuesday following a distress call. Isah said the operation was made possible with the collaboration of vigilante groups in the area, adding that the Commissioner of Police, Idrisu Dauda, commended the efforts of his men. “On June 21, 2022, about 1700hrs, a distress call was received that terrorists, in their numbers, armed with AK-47 rifles, attacked Sabon Dawa village. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Safana, led a team of police and vigilante to the area, engaged the terrorists in a fierce gun duel, neutralised two and foiled their heinous mission.,” Isah said. The command also confirmed Monday afternoon’s attack, which led to the death of three persons and the abduction of another in Batagrawa Local Council. Terrorists, on Monday, at about 04:00 p.m., reportedly stormed Bakiyawa community in Batagrawa Local Council, killed three persons and injured others. They were said to have shot one person in the leg and abducted a married woman, identified as Hawawu Yusuf, at Ungwan Makera, within the same area. A resident, Marwan Zayyana, gave the names of the deceased as Aminu Abdulwahab, Musa Abubakar and Sadiq Lawal. He explained that Lawal was killed in his compound at Ungwan Tsugune, Abubakar in front of his house at Ungwan Jageme and Abdulwahab on his farm, adding that the attackers, who came on motorcycles, operated unperturbed for about 30 minutes. GOVERNOR Aminu Masari has vowed not to retreat in his effort to tackle insecurity and related criminality in the state. Masari, during a two-day security awareness workshop for local council administrators in the state, yesterday, said security agencies would be given necessary support till the problem is overcome. The state is among several in the country faced with security challenges brought about by activities of terrorists, rustlers and kidnappers. Hundreds of people have been killed, maimed or kidnapped since the state started recording such activities, with billions of naira reportedly lost to the challenge. The governor, who lamented the shortage of security operatives in the country, as well as logistics and equipment to fight insecurity, called on council administrators to come up with ways to complement the fight against insecurity. He specifically called on the recently elected local council chairmen and councillors to ensure they find ways of securing people at the grassroots, and not abdicate their responsibilities. At the event, Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Ibrahim Ahmed, said that most of the security challenges in the state were community-based. Ahmed explained that the security situation in the state had drastically reduced, but that youths were being used as informants to the criminals. 