• Scores his govt 75% in performance in three years
• We‘ll withhold subventions until LAUTECH ASUU ends strike, gov vows Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will rescue the country from the doldrums of maladministration in 2023. This also came as the governor declared that his administration had recorded over 75 per cent success rate as far as service delivery and electoral promises made by him are concerned within three years. Makinde said these at the weekend during a live interview programme, Meet the Governor, hosted by the state-owned Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State and joined live by radio stations across the state. He said that he had put the development at the just-concluded PDP national convention behind him, stating that the party would do what is necessary to rescue Nigeria. The governor, stated that though a northerner emerged as the party’s presidential candidate despite the decision by southern governors that the presidency should rotate to the South, it has become imperative to work together so that Nigerians could be saved from the maladministration of the All Progressives Congress (APC). A statement by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted Makinde as saying that the PDP leaders have resolved to chase away the APC as the first condition towards rescuing Nigeria. The governor said his administration would continue to deliver the goods to the people till the last day of its tenure. He further said that the administration focused on four major pillars of education, health, security and economic expansion and that the state has experienced a great turnaround across the four sectors and other areas in the last three years. On education, Makinde stated that apart from the administration scrapping education levies and putting in place an educational grant for public primary and secondary school students per term, it has embarked on the massive building of education infrastructure and repositioned the sector. Besides, the governor said that the administration had made progress in the area of healthcare delivery across the primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare strata, with the completion and commissioning of abandoned projects at the Adeoyo State Hospital, Ibadan. The governor said that his government had begun a massive infrastructure development drive across the agribusiness corridors of the state. Meanwhile, while speaking on the participation of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) chapter, in the prolonged strike embarked upon by the national body, Makinde said the lecturers should not have joined the industrial action. He said: “As of today, their subvention is being withheld. If they don’t go back to school, I won’t release their subvention. So, the students must know who to hold accountable.