Sir: A battle that has a beginning must have an end.  Even if it is fought under our imaginative thoughts, we need to have a stopping point and reflect on our past. This will be an assessment to carry out as warriors in the battlefield of our destiny in our county. We need to come together as individuals with collective ideas and make this choice. Time has come when citizens need to open their minds and listen to the aspirants, who are engaging our atmosphere for our vote. It is the responsibility of all of us to choose our candidate, a candidate who knows how to approach the present looking at the past and approach the future looking at the past and present. When we come together and become strong with our collective ideas, after listening to all the promises, then we should choose the best candidate, who can fulfil those promises. Over the years, a lot of promises have been made, and always unfulfilled. What is needed of us is to sit down and think about who can fulfil those promises. Someone who can steer the wheel of the nation, towards overcoming challenges in the race of excellence. This choice has come to us as the last hope for a citizen, which is inevitable by the fact that we have gone through a lot of troubles. I considered this choice to be the greatest turning point we would have to take in our history. We need leaders who can put the interest of their people first; who would not sleep at night when their people are in danger until they find solutions to their problems. It is time to make a wise decision, a decision that we will enjoy as citizens and coming generations. We all need a collective decision that can change our situation to better and impact our lives positively. A choice made from past experience which we will reflect on our present and think of our future. History shall only be fair to us, if we navigate our way towards changing those circumstances and our failures into opportunities. This can only be achieved if we change ourselves as individuals. In a global community surrounded by self-interest, changing ourselves is the opening door to development of our communities and we as individuals. Everyone as a person has a role to play in his society. Individuals should not only be concerned about their children, but also address other children as their children, even if they are not from us, by building them to do the needful and leave out what the society doesn’t need. That is how we will build a society of youths who can change our new history.
Aliyu Isah Chiroma is a student at the Usman Dan Fodio University Sokoto. 