Patricia Technologies – Africa’s largest Crypto exchange by transaction volume, has consistently innovated refreshing financial solutions to redefine how people interact with crypto for about half a decade now. The man behind the dream himself, Hanu Fejiro Agbodje is a force to reckon with, having successfully failed at 13 startups before hitting gold with the Patricia dream. Enjoying the spotlight in two different locations a fortnight ago, Hanu Fejiro Agbodje received honourable mentions and recognitions from two prestigious bodies. The first of which was being recognized on  May 20th, 2022.  As the“Young Entrepreneur of the Year 2021 Award” at the 2021 Vanguard Personality of the Year Award. (Patricia’s Brand Manager – Rachael Akalia and Chief People Officer – Chika Uluocha receiving the award on Fejiro Hanu Agbodje’s behalf) The Vanguard team rolled out the red carpet in honour of distinguished men and women who have proved themselves worthy of the celebration in their respective fields. This year’s award ceremony, themed “A decade of excellence” was held at the prestigious Eko Hotels and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos Nigeria, and marks the 10th edition of the award. Is another remarkable celebration of excellence by some outstanding achievers who were either on hand or duly represented to receive their well-deserved recognitions. This was the case with Patricia’s CEO who was ably represented by the Chief People Officer (Chika Uluocha) & Brand Manager (Rachael Akalia)  to receive his well deserved “2021 Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award” Patricia’s CEO – Hanu Fejiro Agbodje Received his award from His Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi OjajaOoni II. Chika Uluocha (Chief People Officer- Patricia Technologies)  expressed on behalf of the CEO   “Gratitude for the deserved honorable recognition and the pledge to continue Innovating refreshing solutions to redefine the financial experiences of many within the country and beyond”. And on the following evening, Hanu was right on hand at the palace of His Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife,  Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi OjajaOoni II as one of  His Majesty’s 100 exceptional recipients of the Royal African Young Leadership Forum (RAYLF) award in Tech and Innovation for the year 2022. Having arrived in Ife on May 20th, Hanu Fejiro Agboje paid a short visit to His Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife,  Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi OjajaOoni II to congratulate him on his exemplary model-worthy leadership over the years and for paving the way for the youths. Patricia prides itself on innovation, skills, and expertise with which they deliver refreshing solutions to rewrite the financial experiences of its users. They’re set to make Crypto easy for mankind, hereby creating a new and sustainable path for the present and future generations in Africa and beyond. For more information & inquiries about Patricia Technologies, visit www.mypatricia.co