Several groups, yesterday, warned the All Progressives Congress (APC), especially its presidential flag bearer, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, against flaunting a Muslim-Muslim ticket in the 2023 general elections. The Nigerian Youths Coalition (NYC) said the move would amount to the APC beating the drums of religious war. At a world press conference in Abuja, NYC President Aare Oladotun Hassan wondered why APC would consider a Muslim-Muslim ticket at a time when terrorism, unguarded comments on ethnic bigotry, and cries over alleged Islamisation were increasing. Also, the Youth Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN) urged APC to drop the idea of a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket, vowing it would mobilise votes against any political party that toes the path. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, President of YOWICAN, Belusochukwu Enwere, said: “This is an insult. It devalues and dehumanises millions of Christians. Any political party that fields a Muslim-Muslim ticket or Christian-Christian ticket should know it is about to fail because Nigeria is a secular state. “Muslim-Muslim ticket will divide Nigeria. Any party, whether APC, Peoples Democratic Party or All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) that fields a same-religion ticket is bound to fail. “Does it imply that northern Christians are not regarded as northerners again? If we claim that we are together, then there should be no reason not to accept a northern Christian. “If you begin to advocate that you want a same-religion ticket, you are bound to fail, and we will do everything, as Christian youths, within our power, including mobilisation, to ensure it does not fly. We are not giving a threat. But I can say that anyone who tries it is bound to fail.” A GROUP, under the umbrella of Coalition of Arewa Forum For Good Governance (CAFGG), said any attempt by APC to consider a Muslim-Muslim ticket would create a crisis across the country. It said the current tension stirred by rumours of a possible Muslim-Muslim ticket is uncalled for and should be jettisoned in the interest of equity, justice and fairness. In a press statement signed by the Coordinator, Garba Yunusa, the group said: “Nigerians are not unaware that Tinubu is a Muslim from the southwest geopolitical zone. Thus, we feel it would be rational for a northern Christian, especially from the marginalised north-central zone, to be his running mate. “We strongly believe that once a Christian is picked, the warnings and threats by the Christian Association of Nigeria would have been taken care of.” Meanwhile, a section of APC stakeholders, led by Mr. Aliyu Audu, addressed a press conference in Abuja, yesterday, saying: “Nigeria is in dire need of good governance, and this can come from either a Muslim leader or a Christian leader. “But in the spirit of nationalism, justice and fairness, which the northern governors demonstrated a few days ago, the leaders of the north, on whose shoulder the emergence of the vice-presidential candidate rests, must also demonstrate this spirit by ensuring that the candidate comes from the Christian faith.”