The government has been urged to put the right infrastructure in place to enable the use of technology for innovation and growth of small business and enterprise. This was disclosed at Junior Chamber International’s (JCI) Innovative Enterprise Exhibition and Seminar, tagged: ‘The impact of technology on small, medium sized enterprise in Nigeria,’ held in Lagos. Speaking at the event, a Fintech and Digital economy researcher, Kola Osinowo, stressed the importance for small businesses to leverage technology to scale their business and create new ones. Osinowo added that technology, being an enabler, should be used to solve problems, adding that since technology can be used to facilitate innovation, it is important that all stakeholders, including government, business owners and individuals, embrace and support itsgrowth. He said: “There is a need to ensure that we have a broad Internet. For instance, there is a need to improve the power supply. Electricity is what facilitates the ability to use technology. Also, there is a need to ensure that government regulation doesn’t cripple somebody that is trying to use technology to solve a problem. One government regulation can actually kill a thousand businesses. “Technology removes boundaries, inabilities, impossibilities and creates a level playing field for everybody. It’s time for Nigerian students to take advantage of it, so they can thrive in their academics. “There is a need for the government to improve on infrastructure that fosters learning and increases access to education by providing the right level of technology. Currently, I am doing my PhD in the UK and my supervisor is in the UK and I am in Nigeria. We do communicate as we ought to, my research is focused on Africa, he is learning from me and vice versa and that is what the power of technology is able to do.” On his part, President, JCI, Ikeja, Ayoola David stated that it is important for young enterprising individuals from across board and business ventures to learn, improve and understand the impact that technological advancement and growth has upon small and medium scale businesses. “Innovative Enterprise Exhibition and Seminar is a JCI Ikeja flagship event that brings together successful industry leaders in the society to share their stories, insights and knowledge with young business owners and entrepreneurs.”