Anambra State government has banned the dumping of refuse on pavements, roads, as well as in neighbourhoods across the state. The newly appointed Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) Anambra State Waste Management Agency (ASWAMA), Sir Ifeanyi Ozoemena, disclosed this at the weekend,
during a meeting of market leaders and chairmen of all the 33 villages in Awka, at the Government House, Awka. Ozoemena regretted that such indiscriminate dumping of refuse had defaced the aesthetics of the state, describing the trend as irresponsible. He warned that, henceforth, whosoever is caught would be prosecuted accordingly. He, therefore, called for cooperation from the public. He said: “I urge the market leaders and village heads to support the government and maintain a clean environment. We will erect more receptacles in desired locations across the state. “Residents in Awka and indigenes must support the government and assist it in information dissemination on responsible waste disposal habits.” IN another development, the state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Afam Obidike yesterday, commended the establishment of Oba Coordinated Wholesale Centre (CWC), in Idemili South Local Council, insisting it will help bring an end to the distribution of fake, counterfeit and adulterated drugs in Nigeria. Obidike recalled that the project was first approved in 2016 but was delayed due to numerous challenges and applauded the state governor, Prof. Charles Soludo, for the political will in fulfilling one of his health mandates to the Anambra people by facilitating and giving approval for the open drug markets to be moved to the CWC in Oba. He noted that when completed, the project would help to reduce the morbidity and mortality rate of Anambra citizens and Nigerians generally, lamenting that fake drugs have destroyed the life of many Nigerians. According to him, the CWC will provide huge job opportunities in an organised system, both skilled and unskilled, as well as have a positive economic impact on the state. “I appreciate the Federal and state government for embracing this strategy aimed at sanitising the drug distribution system in the state and Nigeria at large,” Obidike said.