Following the selection of Kabiru Masari as placeholder cum tentative presidential running mate to the All Progressives Congress (APC) standard bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, interest groups have continued to push forward their preferred candidates. It could be recalled that in a bid to meet the June 17 deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for political parties to submit the names of their presidential and vice presidential candidates, the APC chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu uploaded the names of Tinubu and Masari on interim basis. Ever since the names were uploaded, interest groups and organisations have been divided on the issue of Muslim/Muslim ticket as the canvass for a religious balance to be reflected on the presidential ticket. One of the groups, which goes by the name APC Integrity Group informed journalists in Abuja that instead of allowing religious sentiments to distract party leaders, the best approach was to consider a younger person as Tinubu’s runningmate. The group said that the youth are a united wing of the party and therefore would not bother whether the candidate is Muslim or Christian, stressing that the only condition should be the competence and capacity of the prospective young VP. In a statement signed by Mallam Dawu Mohammed and Chinsom Nwakanma, Coordinator and Secretary respectively, the APC Integrity Group pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to consider a young technocrat for the position. The group noted that from the calibre of candidates that emerged from other leading political parties, “it becomes obvious that the 2023 election would be keenly contested and the ruling party would do itself good in presenting candidates that would appeal to the people.” The group said: “The APC Presidential candidate and his running mate must be equipped with the knowledge of global economy to be able to catch the fancy of the Nigeria electorate, especially the youths. “When one listens to the Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, he has a message that appeals to the youths and other Nigerians. To square up with such a candidate, the APC must consider a running mate whose focus of governance must be that which would be desired by Nigerians.” The group observed that among those being considered for the position of running mate, including Senator Kashim Shettima, Governor Simon Lalong, former Speaker of House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogora, current Secretary to the Federal Government (SGF) Boss Mustapha, former SGF, Babachir Lawal and former APC National Youth Leader, Hon. Abubakar Sadiq, there is need to go for a younger proffessional who has no baggage of previous political office. 