• Pledge to arrest killers, beef up security
• Olowo bemoans shortage of operational vehicles, adequate personnel The Nigeria Police Force, yesterday, apologised to the people of Owo and Ondo State in general over the terror attack on worshippers at St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, Owaluwa, Owo, where 40 lives were lost and several others injured. The Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 17, which comprises Ondo and Ekiti Commands, Yunus Akeera, tendered the apology during a condolence visit to the palace of Olowo of Owo, Oba Gbadegesin Ogunye, and the scene of the attack. Akeera, who resumed duty on Monday, said that the police had been working tirelessly to unravel the mystery surrounding the horrific attack, adding that such an incident will not repeat itself in any part of the country. The AIG said that police would henceforth engage the community to prevent recurrence but called for the co-operation of the people of the state to tackle insecurity across the country. He said: “Issues like this have never happened and people are wondering, why Owo? We must say we are sorry for what has happened. We are wondering what would have led this evil person to perpetuate this kind of thing to disturb the Owo Kingdom. “But as law officers, we are going to put our ears to the ground and we will leave no stone unturned to make sure that those behind this wicked act are apprehended and made to face the law. This I must assure you.” He lauded Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu for the Executive Order signed to compel public and private institutions in the state to install Close Circuit Televisions (CCTVs) on their facilities, stating that the move will enormously enhance the fight against crime by security agencies. MEANWHILE, Oba Ogunoye, who charged the police to unearth those behind the attack, lamented that police in Owo lacked operational vehicles as well as adequate personnel. “One could not fathom why those people could go to that extent. They are not Muslims and they are not Christians. As I often say, they are not human beings and they don’t worth human existence. “I know that very soon, the full wrath of the law will be against them. I know that police are very professional and when they set out to do an assignment, the result will be so certain. “The police have not only performed here, they do even when they are on international assignment.”