CP Echeng,  PPRO decline comment  
 
The family of Philip Dilibe, who was allegedly killed in Anambra State over a land dispute, has dragged the State Commissioner of Police,  Echeng Echeng,  to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali, over the handling of the matter.  From there, others were beaten and taken to an uncompleted building and they forcefully collected all their money. The brother alleged that despite evidence of key witnesses,  Anambra State Police Commissioner released the key suspects, Peter Uyanwa and Kachi Uzodigwe without charging them to court.
   
He lamented that before his brother was killed,  the deceased had written several petitions to police authorities about a threat to his life by Peter Uyanwa and others, but they failed to do anything, until his brother was finally murdered in cold blood.
   
He also alleged that when Uzodigwe was arrested, he gave the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Dunukofia, Effiong Nda N1 million and that the DPO released him to go.  He added that the DPO said that he released the accused based on the Police Commissioner’s instruction.
   
“I am using this opportunity to call on the IGP to look into the case and see that Uyanwa and Uzodigwe are re-arrested, investigated and prosecuted. He should also investigate Anambra State Police Commissioner, Mr. Echeng Echeng, who acted with impunity as if there are no laws in Nigeria by releasing people who murdered a human being in broad daylight. “The necessary disciplinary measure should be applied against him by the authorities.“I am also using this opportunity to plead with the IGP to arrest everyone involved,” he pleaded. MEANWHILE, both Echeng and the Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Tochukwu Ikenga have remained silent on the matter. When The Guardian called them, they neither picked their calls, nor responded to text messages sent to them. The Commissioner of Police also read the chat sent to his Whatsapp  number without response. 