The just concluded governorship primary of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State that produced the incumbent Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu as candidate of the party for 2023 election has continued to generate discussion, as other two aspirants are dissatisfied with the exercise.  Unknown to Mustapha, who had prepared to challenge the godfathers that often decided the candidate of the party and set a new record that internal democracy is possible in Lagos APC, he had been disqualified and denied entrance to the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan Stadium, where the primary held. The Lagos State Governorship Primary Election Committee of the party told Mustapha his name was not in the ballot because the screening committee had disqualified him. 
 
This left Sanwo-Olu as the sole aspirant at the primary where he got affirmation of the delegates. Announcing the result, the Chairman of the APC Electoral Committee/Returning Officer, Alhaji Adamu Yuguda said Sanwo-Olu scored 1,170 votes to emerge winner. He disclosed that 1,225 ad hoc delegates were expected at the state congress to choose the party’s governorship candidate, while 1,198 delegates were accredited across the 20 Local Government Areas of the state. He said, “For those who have been murmuring, we have three aspirants that purchased forms in Abuja. Three of them went for screening, one was cleared and two were disqualified.  Yuguda disclosed that the screening committee of the party did not clear Mustapha because of certain issues concerning his certificates.  Oluwo also protested his exclusion from the governorship primary, saying that the screening committee of the party worked with powerful individuals to prevent him from contesting.
  
Oluwo, an ally of ex-governor Ambode, however, said, “The will of the people will not be subverted. These discomforted powerful individuals have even gone to great lengths to prevent me from participating in the primary election by excluding me in a manner similar to the last Edo State episode, where a sitting governor was denied participation in the internal democracy process of his party,” he said. He also alleged that the congresses that produced delegates for the primary were “handpicked.”  Oluwo disclosed that he would challenge the outcome of the primary through the resolution mechanisms available in the party, while also not foreclosing the possibility of approaching a court to seek redress.
  
He said, “It is clear that my candidacy in the 2022 APC primary elections has generated massive positive excitement from party members and Lagosians generally. It has also created serious discomfort for those who are afraid of my message of a new agenda and accountability in governance,” he said.
 
“I implore my teeming supporters to remain calm and law abiding, despite the provocations. We will continue to seek redress from the internal dispute resolution mechanisms or the party, without foreclosing the enforcement of our rights to seek justice in the court of law.”
 
Also, Mustapha, insisted that the controversial exercise was manipulated to give Sanwo-Olu ticket to contest for the second term.
  
In a statement released to the media, the former Permanent Secretary, alleged that he was dubiously excused from the exercise and has demanded a fresh poll.
  
“I strongly request that the exercise as carried out be nullified and a fresh exercise be conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner in the state. The APC is a beacon of truth and hope for us and future generations. It should not and must not be seen as condoning such high level impunity in its operation. It is my firm belief that the right step would be taken by the party.  “I had the impression that all was well and continued with my consultations on a ward to ward basis in the state. My profile during the consultation increased exponentially amongst delegates, party faithful and the good people of Lagos State at large. I made several efforts at getting the details of the process at the national and state party secretariats but all efforts met brick walls.” On why he was locked out on the Election Day, he said: “None of the details requested nor materials listed was made available to me. I now believe the silence and exclusion was deliberate and calculated to technically shut me out of the race and trample upon my rights with gross impunity. “On getting to the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, through speculation on May 26, 2022, I was turned back at the gate of Onikan Stadium along with my agents despite introducing myself as a gubernatorial aspirant to the security men on duty. Efforts to get the state and national officials were not successful until I was finally able to reach Dr. Mohammed Bashir. who surprisingly claimed that I was not cleared to participate in the election.  “I have raised an appeal despite the difficulties encountered along the process. I have reasons to believe that I, with the other aspirant, were deliberately shut out to give the party chieftain’s aspirant the opportunity to emerge despite being an incumbent governor.” “The process and actions taken by the national and the state officers violated all relevant laws of the land and amounted to a gross abuse of power, as well as breach of the trust of members of our great party, which had been vested in the party officials at the state and national levels.”  “In all facets, Lagos residents should expect a lot more from us. We will not disappoint or betray the confidence reposed in us. I want to say that indeed, this is the beginning of bigger work that we have for Lagos.’’
  
Sanwo-Olu also congratulated other contestants for being part of the democratic process, saying that with the resounding victory in the primary election, he is confident the members of the party are united and ready to serve the state. 