 Korean-Pancake-Haemul-Pajeon-Made-During-DOpen-Kitchen-Cooking-Class. Pajeon, as it is called, is a Korean Pancake. This simple Korean Pancake recipe is stuffed with vegetables and eaten with a hot soy sauce.
Pajeon is created with a savoury pancake batter combined with chopped potatoes and a variety of fresh veggies, then fried to excellence.
One way to enjoy this Korean pancake is with a sauce. Unless you consider the soy and sesame seeds in the dipping sauce odd, there are no distinct or unusual pairings here.
Pajeon is crispy on the exterior, soft and moist in the interior, and packed with fresh, lightly cooked vegetables. These Korean pancakes are a must-try. korean-pancake-with-sweet-and-sour-tamari INGREDIENTS
½ cup all-purpose flour
½ cup potato starch (or 1/4 cup each white rice flour and cornstarch)
¾ teaspoon fine sea salt, plus more as needed
½ teaspoon baking powder
¾ cup ice water
1 large egg
4 cups finely chopped or grated mixed vegetables (carrots, zucchini, bell peppers, kale, and any vegetable you have)
4 scallions(Green Onions), cut into 2-inch-long sections and thinly sliced lengthwise
2 tbsp vegetable cooking oil To Make the Sauce
Sesame oil and seeds
Rice water
Sugar
low sodium soy sauce
water
rice vinegar
sugar
Ginger
Crushed red pepper
sesame oil
Garlic maxresdefault METHOD
Combine the flour, water, egg, and salt in a mixing basin. Combine the vegetables and about three-quarters of the scallions in a mixing bowl and set the batter aside to rest. (Reserve the remainder for garnishing) 2 tablespoons oil, heated in a pan over medium heat. Scoop 1/4 cup amounts of batter into the skillet, as many as will fit without touching, flatten, and fry for two to three minutes, or until dark golden on the bottom. Flip and cook for another two to three minutes, or until the opposite side is browned. Sprinkle it with a bit of extra salt and transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Repeat with the rest of the batter. Make the dipping sauce before serving: In a microwave-safe bowl, combine soy sauce, vinegar, ginger or garlic, sesame oil, and sugar in a small bowl. Warm for one-two minutes in the microwave, just long enough for the sugar to dissolve. Set away after another whisking. Cut the Korean pancakes into wedges and serve with the dipping sauce on the side, with sliced green onions garnished on the pancake while they’re still warm. Enjoy!!!