Following the rapprochement by the leaders and members of Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the governorship candidate of the party Chief Ikechi Emenike has inaugurated a twelve-man reconciliation committee headed by Senator Chris Adighije to ensure that the party remains united ahead of 2023 general election. In a communique read by the former Speaker of the Abia State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Martin Azubuike after an all inclusive meeting, Rt. Hon. Nkeiru Onyejeoch will serve as the Secretary of the peace parley. Other members include: “Engr. Chris Okpechi; Hon. Emeka Nwogu; Rt. Hon. Emeka Atuma; Rt. Hon. Ben Kalu; Hon. Chidi Avadja and Barrister Fabian Okonkwo. Others are: Hon. Donatus Nwankpa; Hon. Ben Godson; Hon. Solomon Alozie; and Hon. Ikenna Anyalewechi. The Committee is expected to ensure sustainable peace in the party in line with Emenike’s pledge after his election as governorship candidate to lead a united APC to victory in the state. The reconciliation meeting resolved that: “Abia State APC is one united party under the chairmanship of Dr. Kingsley Ononogbu and the leadership of Emenike; That the leaders from all sides of the party together with all the members they represent agreed to remain members of one united Abia APC; That Emenike is the only governorship candidate of Abia State APC for the 2023 governorship election; That the leaders of the party as represented here today, shall use their best efforts to achieve genuine and honest reconciliation and reintegration of all members of the party in the state.” It would be recalled that Abia APC has been in deep crisis for many years until the Senator Abdullahi Adamu led National Working Committee (NWC) decided to resolve the issues. The National Chairman (South), Emma Eneukwu, who was mandated to lead the reconcillitiaton held several meetings with the various contending tendencies and also followed up with joint meetings of the major protagonist. Eneukwu’s effort led to a sharing formula of elective offices for the 2023 election, which both factions signed and the agreement was endorsed by the NWC of the party. The smooth implementation of that agreement has calmed nerves within the state chapter of the party and paved way for the successful meeting at Ntalakwu Oboro, which was attended by over 90 per cent of all the major stakeholders, as well as executives of the party in 184 wards and 17 local councils in the state. 