The Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Sports Trust Fund (LSSTF), Olaposi Agunbiade, has reaffirmed the body’s commitment to the ongoing renovation of the Mobolaji Johnson Indoor Sports Hall at the Rowe Park Sports Centre, Yaba, saying it will be completed by August this year. Speaking during the inspection of the Rowe Park Sports Centre, yesterday, the LSSTF scribe lauded the Lagos State Lottery Board, as well as Chief Kessington Adebutu, for their support in rehabilitating the facilities, while calling for more support from the private sector. “We have all realised that government cannot fund sports alone and we at LSSTF have decided to seek support from the private sector… we must acknowledge the huge backing we have received from the Lagos State Lottery Board, as well as Chief Adebutu, who have made it possible for us to get to this stage of the project. We are still seeking the support of well-meaning individuals in Lagos for us to do more in terms of sports infrastructure,” he said. He said that LSSTF would continue donating sports equipment to public secondary schools, adding that there are plans to present more to the six education districts in Lagos next month. According to the contractor handling the renovation work on the Olympic size swimming pool, as well as the outdoor handball, volleyball, tennis, and basketball courts, Architect Niyi Lawal, the project is near completion, as few works are needed to be finalized on the swimming pool. “Most of the works are near completion. In a few weeks, we should be handing over the volleyball, handball, and basketball courts while we still need a few weeks to finalise works on the swimming pool based on the quality of materials we have been using on the project.  We hope that by August, we should be quitting the site and handing over the facilities to LSSTF,” Lawal said. Also speaking on the renovation, Project Offucer, Kayode Ogunnaike, said: “We have finished most of the major works in the Indoor hall as the FIBA-approved floor has been laid, while we just need to put finishing touches to the offices and surroundings. We hope that in a few weeks, we will leave the site and hand over the facilities.”