• Zamfara police kill one terrorist, recover rifle in two villages
• Trading with B’Haram, ISWAP fuels terrorism, says military Gunmen have kidnapped the District Head of Panyam in Mangu Local Council of Plateau State, HRH Adamu Derwam. Derwam was abducted, yesterday, from his Panyam residence. Confirming the incident, the paramount ruler’s brother, Friday Derwam, said the gunmen stormed the palace about 01:40am and started shooting sporadically before taking the traditional ruler away. Spokesman for the Plateau State Police Command, DSP Alfred Alabo, said a combined tactical team of the police, the army, vigilante groups and hunters had been deployed to the area for possible rescue of the traditional ruler. According to family sources, the gunmen were about 20 in number when they took away the district head. The source told The Guardian that the kidnappers had not made any demand.
ZAMFARA State Police operatives have killed a suspected terrorist, recovering arms and ammunition in Saran Gamawa and Unguwar Mata villages. The command has also intensified confidence-building patrol to avert further attack on communities, the spokesman, Mohammed Shehu, disclosed. He stated: “On June19, 2022 about 03:00am, Police Tactical Operatives deployed along Gummi/Bukkuyum axis received a distress call that terrorists on motorcycles invaded Saran Gamawa and neighbouring Unguwar Mata villages with intent to kill and abduct innocent members of the communities. “The police, in collaboration with the vigilante of the affected villages, mobilised forces and engaged the terrorists in an extensive gun battle that lasted for hours. As a result, one of the terrorists was fatally injured. An AK-47 rifle belonging to the bandits was recovered at the scene, while others retreated to the forest with possible gun shot wounds.” SIMILARLY, the Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), Maj-Gen. Christopher Musa, has warned against trading with Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists in the North East. According to him, economic activities with the insurgents consolidate terrorism in the region. Reviewing the counter-terrorism operations, yesterday, in Maiduguri, the commander disclosed: The halt of trades and other activities with terrorists could bring an end to insurgency that claimed many lives in Borno.” He added that terrorism has disrupted livelihoods of 1.7 million residents and led to the displacement of over 2.2 million people. “One of the things we realise was the prolonging of terrorism by trading with insurgents. The trade is in food and fuel supplies in Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad region, where a litre of petrol sells for N10,000,” he said, warning that they were taking risks by selling fuel to make money from terrorism. “If we catch you doing those things, you will be treated as a terrorist,” he warned.