At the end of Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State, the State Returning Officer and Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Prof Kayode Adebowale, declared Biodun Oyebanji of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the election with 187,057 votes, while Chief Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), came distant second, polling 82,209 votes and Bisi Kolawole, the governorship candidate of the PDP coming third with 67,457 votes.
  
While Oyebanji trounced his co-contestants in 15 out of 16 councils, Kolawole led only in his Efon local government area. In fact, Oni was humbled in his Ido/Osi council, where APC got 10,321 and SDP 9,321.
  
Although many people in the state have described the resounding victory as a referendum on Governor Kayode Fayemi’s achievements in managing the resources of the state and integrating Ekiti into national politics, some observers attributed the outcome to the unresolved crisis in the PDP after its governorship primary that forced Oni and his supporters to quit the party and join SDP, a relatively unknown party in Ekiti.  However, unknown to Olujimi, Fayose’s game plan was more than what was visible to her. Despite her ambition to fly PDP governorship ticket, Fayose foisted Kolawole on the party, while Oni defected to SDP. Bisi Kolawole of Ekiti PDP  That Oni’s structure in SDP was not more that a “horse in paper”, was obvious. The calculation of most of its members that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was likely to lose APC presidential ticket and defect to SDP turned mirage and deflated Oni’s chances.
   
Though Tinubu was in Ekiti, he joined the train to campaign for APC and Oyebanji without making reference to Oni or SDP. Indeed, Tinubu’s visit to Ekiti was seen as the final endorsement that gave APC massive victory during the election.
   
For many who thought the election would be a three-horse race, they were disappointed as Fayose suddenly developed cold feet with some in PDP asking him to explain the dismal performance of the party at the election. It was strange that PDP was not visible in the state before the election. Despite the fact that the party did not hold a rally to galvanise support from the electorate, its candidate was also off the radar. And few days to the election, what was expected to be a stiff contest among three parties had become a two-horse race between APC and SDP.
   
Speaking to The Guardian on how APC got its landslide victory, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye, said: “Ekiti people wanted continuity of the government of Fayemi. Since Fayemi took oath of office, he has done creditably well and kept faith with its five-pillar development agenda – good governance, agriculture and rural development; social investments, knowledge economy, infrastructure and industrial development.”
  
Speaking in the same vein, the Director of Media and Publicity, BAO Campaign Organisation, Taiwo Olatunbosun said APC won the election because Oyebanji built his campaign on Fayemi’s record of performance, having been part of the first and second term of administrations. He said: “The continuity of projects and regular payment of salaries and pensions was a major attraction to workers who could not trust PDP or SDP to be able to do it.
  
“The elderly and Ekiti youths identify with him, he is a quiet philanthropist who reaches out to the youth. The elderly also believe that the monthly stipends for elderly citizens and Onje Arugbo, which provided food items for indigent old people, will continue under his administration. 