President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday inaugurated the 33km Hadejia-Nguru road, Phase II, linking Jigawa and Yobe States. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the project awarded on Sept. 20, 2010 at total cost of N79.53 billion with completion period of 30 months was later reviewed to May 19, 2019. The president, who was represented by Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, said his administration executed viable infrastructure development projects to promote investment and ensure ease of doing businesses in the country. He said the measure was to create jobs and lift people out of poverty, adding that “the results of our investment are manifesting. “I can confidently say that as we enter the final lap of the tenure of the Buhari administration we are also entering a season of completion and delivery of projects,” he said. According to him, the 33km road links Kirikasamma-Nguru in Jigawa and Yobe, connecting agrarian and trading communities to ease movement of farm produce. Buhari commended the dedication and commitment of engineers and workers for successful completion of the project, adding that the road project was a testament of economic efficiency and ease of doing businesses. He urged motorists and other road users to avoid abusing the facility, especially motorists who are in the habit of overloading and those using it as packing spaces. Also, Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing, said the road was the first to be inaugurated under the Phase II of completed projects across the country. Represented by Mr Wasiu Adetayo, Director Highway in charge of North-West Zone, Fashola said the president has mandated ministers from the states where project were ready for handing over to represent him. He listed other projects billed for inauguration to include Isoko Ring road, Section II, covering Aviara-Uzere in Delta, Nguru-Gashua-Bayamari road, Section II and Phase I, covering Gashua to Bayamari; and Section I, Phase II covering Nguru-Gashua in Yobe. Others are Lafia-Obi-Awe-Tunga road in Nasarawa, and Gombe-Numan-Yola road, Phase II, covering Gombe-Kaltungo. “These projects represent major investment in road transport infrastructure, which is a commitment of the Buhari administration as a driver for economic growth and prosperity. “They are visible and incontrovertible assets in proof of what Nigeria’s resources are invested in, from a combination of our earned resources and borrowings. “This occasion affords the opportunity to restate that in addition to other innovative sources of funding, our budgetary provisions are also being diligently applied to complete projects such as these,” he said. Mr Bashir Alkali, Permanent Secretary in the ministry, said the FG’s policy on infrastructure development focused on completion of ongoing projects to create jobs, promote local content and stimulate economic growth. Alkali, represented by Atewolara Oladele, Federal Controller Works in Jigawa, said the aim is to link major arterial roads to refineries, ports, tertiary institutions and high volume commercial centres with a view to reducing travel times, vehicle maintenance costs, safety and security of commuters. He said the ministry had successfully completed several roads and maintained bridges, to ensure that road users have a rewarding road travel experience. On his part, Gov. Muhammad Badaru commended the president for his outstanding performance in all sectors. Badaru, represented by his deputy, Malam Umar Namadi, said the inaugurated Hadejia-Nguru road, hitherto, a nightmare for travellers. He listed other road projects being undertaken by the Buhari-led administration in the state as Gaya-Shuwarin, Shuwarin-Jama’are, Kafinhausa-Jahun-Aujara and Babura-Kanya Babba, among others. 