After seven years atop Nigeria’s political power, there is no doubt that the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) is at a cross road. The party is challenged by how to succeed itself after President Muhammadu Buhari dismounts from the horse on may 29, 2023.  Twist
BUT while the Presidential aspirants rushed to obtain the N100million nomination forms, some pastoralists, farmers, traders and artisans from the Northern part of the country contributed various amounts to pick the Presidential nomination form for former President Goodluck Jonathan to join the race. The Coalition of Northern Groups that purchased the forms explained that after nearly eight years he left the Presidency, they discovered that Dr. Jonathan had the masses’ interest at heart. They named the Almajirai Schools, health facilities as well as infrastructure projects undertaken by the former President as what they need. Not long ago, it should be noted, some bandits that were apprehended by law enforcement agencies confessed that they went into banditry and criminal abduction for ransom, because they do not have skills to earn a decent living, particularly after their cows were rustled.
    
Apart from the reasons advanced by the Coalition of Northern Groups that purchased Presidential nomination forms for Dr. Jonathan, the international community, including Britain, Germany, US, France, Canada, Italy and Spain were also said to be worried by the rhetoric trailing the build up to the 2023 General Elections. The G8 develop countries are said to be concerned that unless the 2023 Presidential poll produces a peacemaker and nationalist, Nigeria could implode, giving rise to more refugee problems in Africa, thereby heightening illegal migration.
    
Signs that APC was taking the post-Buhari era politics serious emerged recently when the class captain of Non-Career Diplomats visited the country and donated an 18-seater bus to the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja.
  
The non-career diplomats said they were in the country to donate the bus as part of the logistic support to ensure that APC triumphs during the 2023 Presidential poll. Captain of the Non-Career Diplomats, Chief Nwannebuike Ominyi, who briefed journalists after the presentation, said the gesture was to support the party’s preparations towards electioneering.  Buhari Shows Interest
ALSO, during a meeting with APC governors, President Buhari charged the governors to join hands with him to execute his succession plan, adding: “Our objective must be the victory of our party and our choice of candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence, even before the elections.”  Those who believe that Dr. Goodluck Jonathan could be President Buhari’s dark horse argue that having defeated Atiku for the PDP ticket in 2011, Jonathan would find it easy to trounce the Wazirin Adamawa again, particularly given the corruption perception around the PDP standard bearer.
    
For the first time, President Buhari has come out to boldly state his intention to have the final say on who flies the APC flag for the 2023 Presidential election. At the meeting with governors before his trip to Spain, the President had stated: “In keeping with the established internal policies of the party, and as we approach the convention in a few days, therefore, I wish to solicit the reciprocity and support of the governors and other stakeholders in picking my successor, who would fly the flag of our party for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023.” 