Votes, not social media, will determine winners, says commission 
Ahead of the 2023 elections, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has expressed concern over the 20 million permanent voter cards lying unclaimed in its vault. It also decried poor participation of citizens in the ongoing continuous voter registration exercise. INEC’s Deputy Director, Voter Education, Mrs. Mary Nkem, stated this at the launch of the PVC Bus Drive Project, organised by a non-governmental organisation, Advocacy for Civic Engagement (ACE), in Abuja, yesterday. The project was initiated to eliminate logistical barriers hindering some Nigerians, particularly those residing in rural areas, from participating in the ongoing registration and collecting their PVCs thereafter. She urged Nigerians, especially the youth, to be actively involved in the process of electing new leaders that will bring true change and move the country forward. According to her, votes, not social media, will determine winners of the 2023 general elections. Nkem said: “This CVR exercise began on June 30, 2021, but we have discovered that between that time and a few weeks ago, the turnout has been relatively low. “If the youths in this country would come out en masse to cast their votes, we will no longer be recording 15 or 20 per cent voter turnout in our elections, because we know that the population of the youths alone can make a difference. “The youths no longer visit the social media; they basically live there today. Therefore, when you want to reach out to them, you must go to where you will meet them – social media. “However, I will like to say that INEC does not conduct election on social media, neither do we count ballots on Twitter or Instagram. “Our ballots are counted in the ballot boxes. It is only the ballot paper that enters into the ballot box that the Commission counts. “What does that mean? It means that on election day, people must go out to cast their votes. For you to be able to do so, you must be a registered voter, and in possession of a PVC.” In his remarks, the Executive Director of ACE, Obinna Osisiogu, said the PVC Bus Drive Project will support at least 60 per cent of eligible young voters to register, collect their PVCs and vote in the elections. According to him, ACE is working in collaboration with Yiaga Africa and the United Nations Development Project to provide free bus services in two area councils of the Federal Capital Territory, as well as across local councils in Ondo and Ogun States to enable people access the INEC office nearest to them, as part of traditional and non-traditional means of political mobilisation. 