When Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state initially expressed interest in the 2023 presidential election under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying he has what it takes to transform Nigeria, not many politicians took him seriously.  “They are aware that the man is coming to build on the modest achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari. They know whom Nigerians are clamouring for and they know who is accepted both by the north and the south, Muslims, Christians, even non-believers. They know that man that is coming to turn the fortunes of this country around. They know that man that can speak the language of the youth and the younger generation. And they know that man who has performed well in his state within the shortest possible time he has been saddled with the responsibility.”
 
But what if the party eventually adopts consensus option? Bello seems certain that the party would not go outside him as the choice. He is also confident that if other considerations are put forward in the form of either indirect or direct primaries, he remained the man to beat. He said: “I am confident and I trust God Almighty and trust the judgment of leadership and members of my great party, the APC. This time around is the time we must get over sentiments of where someone comes from. Today we are crying over the evils that are living in the country, yet, we still look at ourselves as different people, as Muslims and Christians, not as Nigerians. It is time to bridge that gap and cement the relationship and values that unite us more than what divides us. In me is a man that has practiced it; it has become part of our system in Kogi State. Now, I have put myself forward to be that man that is going to champion the new Nigeria where all these sentiments do not matter any longer. I don’t think we should continue to dwell on that which divides us. I happen to be an Ebiraman, I happen to be a Muslim and I happen to come from Kogi State or the North Central or the northern part of the country but most importantly, I am a Nigerian.” 