The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, closed its case against former Governor Jonah David Jang and a one-time cashier in the Office of the Secretary to the State Government (OSSG), Yusuf Pam, before Justice Christy Dabup of Plateau State High Court sitting in Jos. EFCC spokesperson, Wilson Uwujaren, in a statement, said the case was rounded off after the anti-graft agency presented 14 witnesses and tendered several exhibits. Jang and Pam are facing trial for alleged criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of state’s funds to the tune of N6.3 billion. At the last sitting, EFCC had presented PW14, a Chief Superintendent with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC), Taiwo Oloronyomi, who testified against the defendants. But while tendering the statement in evidence, the second defendant’s counsel, S. Olawale, raised objection, arguing that the document was obtained duress, alleging that his client was subjected to physical and psychological torture by one Hajiya Fatima Mohammed in ICPC. This prompted the court to order a trial within trial. Ruling, Justice Dabup admitted in evidence the statement, which the second defendant made on November 17, 2016 to ICPC. The crux of the statement relates to the withdrawal of funds through cheques approved by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Secretary to the State Government and taken to the first defendant (Jang). The judge, however, rejected the statement made on November 23, 2016, saying the mandatory cautionary word was not taken before the second defendant volunteered to write his statement. After the closure of the plaintiffs’ case, the defendants were to open their defence. But their counsel, Mike Ozekhome (SAN) and S. Olewale, informed the court of their decision not to do so. Ozekhome said: “We humbly intend to rely on the case of the prosecution because we believe and submit it is irredeemable, battered and drained of existential blood. We do not need to open any case for evidence in order not to waste the precious time of this honourable court.” Citing Section 301(3) of the Plateau State Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2018,
He explained: “If we are not providing any evidence, the law says that the prosecution has 14 days to address the court, and 10 days for the defence to reply, and another five days for the prosecution to reply on point of law. Thereafter, the Judge adjourned the matter to July 1 for adoption of final written addresses. 