The Campaign for Equal Voting Access for Persons with Disabilities (EVAPWD), has flayed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on what it described as a display of minimal commitment to the implementation of the Electoral Act in yesterday’s gubernatorial election in Ekiti State. A statement signed by its Chairman, David O. Anyaele, said the electoral umpire also breached INEC’s Framework on Access and Participation of Persons with Disabilities in the Electoral Process and the Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2018. [d] He said the EVAPWD, a programme of the Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD), which actively participated in the observation of yesterday’s poll, observed that the promised Braille Ballot Paper by INEC for easy access for the blind voters were scarcely available as it was only observed at Polling Unit (PU) 003, Ward 10, Afao/Kajola and PU 001, Ward 11, Odese in Ikere Local Council. He said: “EVAPWD observers did not see any magnifying glasses at the polling units observed. When ad hoc staff was asked about this material, they told EVAPWD observers that it was not available. “EVAPWD also observed that Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials such as election day instructions and guidelines to assist the deaf or persons with hearing impairment to understand the voting process were not available in all the polling units visited.” Anyaele said observers report showed that large numbers of the polling units were not accessible to physically -challenged persons. “These polling units were sited in difficult places such as buildings without ramps, handrail, across gutter, staircase among others. “The worst we observed was the locating of a polling unit in a basement at PU 004, Ward 002, near Odo-Ado market, Ado-Ekiti Local Council with neither elevators nor ramp to assist physically-challenged voters. “EVAPWD observed massive vote buying and selling, in particular PU 001, Ward 10, Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Council, PU 002, Ward 10, Odo-Oye / Ayedun 1, Gbonyi Local Council, and PU 039, Ward 11, Ado-Ekiti Local Council.” He urged INEC to address the issues as observed by EVA4PWD observers, especially as it plans towards the Osun State governorship election next month. “EVAPWD commends the INEC for the conduct of the election, as we observed large turnout of voters as early as 8:00am at the polling units observed. “EVAPWD is impressed to observe that marginalised populations: the aged, nursing mothers and pregnant women and persons with disabilities were offered priority voting in most of the polling units. We commend polling officials for their efforts in this regard.