Ahead of the presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a political group, National Progressive Solidarity Movement, (NPSM), has appealed for the adoption of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to bear the presidential flag of the party. The group said that among the 23 aspirants, only the political pedigree of Tinubu can withstand and even subdue Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar. Addressing a press conference in Kano Sunday, the group’s National Coordinator, Abdugafar Ozoya said Tinubu is the only APC aspirant that has the political crown and intimidating competence and capability for the plum job. According to him, “Asiwaju is a Political colossus and an astute political strategist that has successfully build an enviable foundation for Lagos State and has the acumen to assemble the best hands across the country to actualize the dreams and aspirations of Nigerians. “Asiwaju held his last political office in 2007 when he completed his tenure as the second civilian governor of Lagos State. That is 14 years ago. Yet, his name is more recurring in political, social and economic conversations than the politicians in government today. Ozoya believed that “Lagos state accounts for over 60 percent of industrial and commercial activities in Nigeria. Lagos is financially viable, generating over 75 percent of its revenue independent of federal grants derived from oil revenues. Lagos generates the highest internal revenue of all states in Nigeria. Lagos state 2020 GDP was projected to be the fifth largest economy in Africa and this is the same Lagos that the year Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu became Governor he met just about 7 million naira in the treasury. “So the main reason we are rallying supporting for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is his ability to identify the best interest of Nigerians and identify competent people irrespective of tribe and religion to deliver democratic dividend to Nigerians and improve service delivery and system efficiency in the Country. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has stood true to his progressive credentials and precedence since he helped co-hatched the biggest and most successful political coalition of all times in Africa – the All Progressive Congress. He has worked Tirelessly for the APC and has supported and still supporting both President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to achieve the best for this great Nation and now his time has come we should all support him and his ideas on how Nigeria can take her rightful place in the committee of nations. “The NPSM has resolved to work for the actualization of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s aspirations for the presidency of Nigeria, come 2023 with intent to galvanize support across all political parties from the youths, women, men, the aged and physically challenged who are of voting age.” 