John Fury has revealed the only fight that would tempt his son, Tyson Fury, back into the ring would be the long-awaited showdown with fellow British fighter, Anthony Joshua, reports dailymail.co.uk. The WBC heavyweight champion has insisted repeatedly that his boxing days are behind him after walking away from the sport to spend more time with his family after his victory over Dillian Whyte in April. The 33-year-old could, however, be tempted by a return to the ring to fight the winner of Oleksandr Usyk vs Joshua, who will meet in their rematch in August with the Ukrainian’s IBF, WBO and WBA titles on the line. Fury has denied reports previously that he is already in talks to fight the winner and his dad has now come out to reveal that he will remain retired unless fellow Brit Joshua wins the rematch in August. ‘‘Yes. Nobody else will. To be honest with you, he’s never come out the gym,’’ John Fury told the Metro. “He’s obsessed with training at the moment, twice a day, every day. I’ve been participating in some of it myself. “He enjoys training, the pressure is off and he loves the gym life. He’s turned into a gym rat basically. It’s funny to see but he is. “He’s super fit and he’s enjoying his time out the ring. Whether it’s going to be permanent or not, it’s up to him. He says he’s retired but you never know with Tyson. “He’s training very hard for a retired man in my book. But that’s up to him, we’ll see in the future.” The 32-year-old bounced back after his last defeat and will be hoping to do the same this time after he was heavily criticised for failing to use his size to his advantage after the rematch was confirmed for Saudi Arabia on August 20. A formal announcement of the hundred-million-dollar plus deal for Joshua v Usyk II will be made early next week. The Middle East Kingdom is poised to invest even more extravagantly in the Gypsy King’s return from brief retirement for a spectacular outing, which they regard as ‘the next Rumble In The Jungle.’ The bid by Fury, as holder of the WBC title, to become the first undisputed heavyweight champion, is being pitched for between the World Cup semifinals and Final in Qatar, probably on December 17, while tens of thousands of football fans are in the Middle East. A source close to the Saudi Royal family says: “This is part of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s ambitious Vision 2030 project to improve the quality of life for residents and visitors to the Kingdom alike, leading towards net zero carbon emission. “The Crown Prince wants the world to recognise Saudi Arabia as much more than an oil country, of which sports and culture are an integral part.” The mega-bucks deal has been brokered for the Saudi government by long-time boxing fan, Prince Khaled bin Abdulaziz, through Skill Challenge Entertainment, who have secured the global rights for Joshua v Usyk. Fury added: “He’s a big strong guy and it was only a game plan that let him down last time and Usyk, even though he got the decision, he knew he was in a fight. He was smashed to bits was Usyk. “So, all AJ has to do is tweak a few things and sheer size and power wins. He needs to get his mind right though as that’s the key to unlocking it all. I believe he can do it. “He’s got a funny way of doing things. He beat Ruiz in Saudi on the return so why not? If anyone’s capable its AJ.
 “I hope he does win and who knows, a fight against him might just tempt Tyson.” 