Additional 25 registration centres created in Anambra An Igbo socio-cultural think tank with members both in Nigeria and the diaspora, Nzuko Umunna, yesterday, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to extend the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise beyond the June 30, 2022, deadline to address the surge in eligible voters. The group said it has observed the enthusiasm of eligible voters to get registered, as well as INEC’s assurances that no voter will be disenfranchised, stressing that the commission has demonstrated uncommon patriotism. In a statement signed by the Executive Secretary of the group, Ngozi Odumuko, the group noted that it has observed the huge turnout of eligible voters, especially youths, for voter registration across the country. The group said: “We have observed, in the past one week, the large turnout of Nigerians, especially the youths, across the federation for the Continuous Voter Registration exercise. It further noted that the development would impact positively on the development of democracy in the country. “This development is a positive one for our democracy as it signifies increasing interest of citizens in the electoral process and, therefore, should be encouraged by the election management body and stakeholders in the country,” it said. The group also commended various religious, civil society groups and individuals, who have been encouraging the citizens to register and vote during elections. It, however, commended the electoral body for deploying additional 209 registration machines to Lagos, Kano and states in the South East, where it noticed large turnout of unregistered voters for the exercise. SIMILARLY, following the surge in the number of citizens seeking to register in the on-going CVR exercise, INEC in Anambra, has created additional 25 registration centres across the state. The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Nkwachukwu Orji, who disclosed this during a press briefing, yesterday, in Awka, said that operations have commenced at the centres. Orji disclosed that the additional centres bring the total number in Anambra to 87, adding that some local council offices, shutdown as a result of insecurity, have been reopened. “Specifically, on Tuesday, June 7, 2022, the Idemili North Local Council office was reopened. Yesterday, June 14, 2022, we have resumed registration exercise in Ogbaru and Ayamelum councils.” 