Inspite of the numerous challenges associated with running a business in the country, Daily-Need Industries has pledged to continuously deliver quality products to consumers. Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Daily Need Group, Oluwatosin Jolayemi, made the commitment while addressing journalists in Lagos to kick-start the celebration of the company’s 50 years of manufacturing in Nigeria. The indigenous brand founded by industrialist, Oyin Jolayemi, commenced manufacturing on November 17, 1972, with its Paulina Beauty Cream. But it had been in business since 1968. The GMD/CEO, Oluwatosin Jolayemi, said it was a difficult task having to convince investors and distributors to choose Daily Need brands over foreign ones when it began manufacturing. However, according to him, the tenacity of the brand made it stand the test of time, making it a household name in the pharmaceuticals and food production business. He said, “As at the time we commenced manufacturing in 1972 and even to this day, there has always been a preference for imported goods at the expense of locally manufactured ones. “Even now, importers of foreign products who are not really providing employment to Nigerians are having a good day over local manufacturers. It was a huge task getting our first product accepted by distributors because consumers didn’t want a ‘local’ product. It took a lot of courage, commitment to quality and drive to stay on course through all these years. “We are celebrating triumphs over difficulties in the last 50 years. From our humble start, we are today a foremost pharmaceutical manufacturing company with over 15 pharmaceutical brands in our portfolio. Today, we are a member of a thriving business group. Perhaps, more importantly, we remain the wholly-owned indigenous manufacturing company in Nigeria to own a cPMG, WHO-compliant factory with the capacity to service the entire African market.” Jolayemi stated that as the company commences the journey of the next 50 years, it was looking forward to a much more favourable environment and improved infrastructure in the country to ease the challenges being faced by committed manufacturers. As part of activities marking its 50th anniversary, the Daily Need Group plans to implement a CSR scheme to reach out in support to key segments of the society. Aside from donating to schools and students, it would conduct free health checks and also donate essential commodities to the people of Mushin, which falls within the location of its corporate headquarters, to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), LASUTH and Massey Children Hospital.