SIR: Change agents are empowered by change leaders. These agents require plans that take a holistic approach, are practical and forward-looking. Change leadership, according to Bunjak et al. (2019), guides, informs, directs, pushes, stimulates, supervises, motivates, teaches, and defends other transformation agents and followers towards the desired change through visions and missions. Any change effort’s success or failure is largely determined by its followers (O’Driscoll, 2012). Not only is the rate of change growing, but there is also a transition toward dealing with discontinuous or revolutionary change. As a consequence of this transformation, managerial leadership and setting direction are becoming increasingly critical aspects of the work (Oreg & Berson, 2019). Concerns concerning leadership in Nigerian higher education institutions and methods of determining the causes of the country’s poor tertiary education standards have been raised numerous times. Most institution heads underestimate the reality that workplace leadership style has a substantial impact on employee performance. Lecturers and administrative personnel are also part of this leadership chain, and they must demonstrate a constructive leadership style that will influence students’ academic achievement. Leaders are expected to recognise the need for change, define change goals, express a sense of direction, develop a change strategy, motivate employees, give support and create an organisational environment conducive to change during times of transition (Naiemah & Abdulsatar, 2018). Job satisfaction is a well-studied phenomena defined as an employee’s happy or good emotional state produced by his or her appreciation for his or her job or work experience. In a survey carried out by Oluseye, Bako, Taiwo and Ajibode (2020) on “Change Leadership and Followers Satisfaction in selected Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria,” the result of the data analysis shows that there is a very strong positive and significant relationship between change leadership and followers’ satisfaction. The findings of the research implies that in higher education, a leader with a greater enthusiasm for work and staff welfare will find it simpler to govern and realise the institution’s key goals, allowing him or her to do more throughout his or her stay in office. The way forward is that leaders of higher institutions of learning should be cautious in their policy choices and develop balanced policies that will benefit both employees and the job, as this is thought to contribute to high levels of satisfaction among followers (academic and non-academic personnel).
 Dr. Yusuf Adebola Bako, principal lecturer, Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State.