In 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari defeated former President Goodluck Jonathan of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to become the President-elect, the mood of the country automatically changed with a popular slogan: “A new Sheriff in Town.”  But barely a year into his first term in office, hopes began to dim. Tinubu Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu PHOTO: TWITTER/ BOLA AHMED TINUBU Nigeriaís ruling party (All Progressive Congress) presidential flagbearer, Bola Tinubu (middle) is flanked by Nigeriaís President Muhammadu Buhari (C) and APC Chairman Abdullahi Adamu (right) after the party announces Tinubu as the winner of its presidential primary during APC special convention to elect the party’s presidential flag bearer for 2023 election at the Eagle Square in Abuja, Nigeria on June 8, 2022. – Former Lagos governor Bola Tinubu is announced the winner of Nigeria’s ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) primary as its candidate for the 2023 presidential election to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. (Photo by Kola Sulaimon / AFP)  Significance Of Tinubu’s Visit To Governor Bello  
THOSE who know the story of Tinubu, Bello, James Faleke and the role played by the “Abuja Cabal” in 2015 when the incumbent governor of Kogi State emerged as governor in the wake of Prince Abubakar Audu’s death moment away from being declared governor would commend the national leader’s magnanimity.
 
It is also good to say that Bello himself has proven to be a worthy ambassador and the unsung hero of the just concluded APC national convention.
 
The Kogi State governor, who has become a toast of Tinubu ran a well-coordinated campaign to get the APC ticket based on three critical issues around the youths, women and people living with a disability. It is gratifying that Governor Bello has placed his campaign structure at the disposal of the party’s flag-bearer to strengthen the APC presidential campaign for the 2023 general elections.
 
The immediate past Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Kingsley Fanwo said the visit was a great move to build an unbeatable momentum ahead of the 2023 Presidential poll. Fanwo hailed Asiwaju Tinubu for his efforts at rallying all the “progressive forces” together in order to build a “formidable force” that will ensure APC retains power beyond 2023. “Our Presidential flag-bearer has shown he is the master of the game by visiting all the key leaders of the party, especially the presidential aspirants to make them see reasons they need to work together to deliver victory for the party. The move will instil confidence in all the stakeholders and party members to rally behind him ahead of the poll.”
  
A former local council chairman in Lagos State and human rights activist, Adewale Ayodele, said, “The emergence of Tinubu as APC presidential candidate is already motivating Nigerians to register and collect their PVCs. Tinubu’s candidacy seems to have rekindled hope among Nigerian voters that the situation of the country would change for the better if eventually elected.”
   
But some leaders of Southwest socio-political organisations, Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) and Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), yesterday said Tinubu must carry a large heart to embrace all those who contested and lost in the primary to him. Interestingly, that is exactly what Tinubu has embarked upon since last Wednesday.  