There was palpable fear, yesterday, in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, after a security guard was set ablaze for alleged blasphemy. The incident took place in Lugbe area of the FCT. Although FCT police operatives have restored normalcy, however, there are fears that religious extremism has crept into the nation’s capital. Spokesperson of the police, DSP Josephine Adeh, who confirmed the incident, said: “Today, June 4, 2022, at about 1.p.m, one Ahmad Usman, a 30-year- old member of the local vigilance group around Tipper Garage at the Federal Housing Estate in Lugbe area of the FCT got into an argument with a cleric (Malam), whose name is yet unknown from the same area. The heated argument degenerated into an outbreak of violence that led to the murder and setting ablaze of Ahmad Usman by the enraged mob.. allegedly mobilised by the clergy, numbering about 200. “Upon the receipt of this information, a quick intervention team comprising of the Surveillance and Ambush team of the Command attached to the Gwagwalada Divisional Police Headquarters was drafted to the scene, where the enflamed victim was rescued suffering severe degrees of burn and taken immediately to the hospital, where he was confirmed dead by a doctor on call. “Normalcy has since been restored to the situation, while monitoring and surveillance of the area continue. Residents are, therefore, urged to go about their lawful duties without fear or apprehension of any kind from any quarters as discrete investigation continues to unravel facts surrounding the ugly incident and to effect the arrest of the perpetrators therein. “The Commissioner of Police CP Babaji Sunday, while warning against the indiscriminate act of self-help in obtaining justice known as jungle justice, said adequate sanctions would be meted on subscribers of this crude and dastardly act. “Additionally, members of the public are urged to remain vigilant, eschew every form of disorderliness, and report any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the Police through the following emergency lines: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and	 08028940883, while the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) Desk, could be reached on: 0902 222 2352.”