Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) yesterday stated that the reason for the epileptic power supply experienced in the country was due to inadequate gas supply, low power generation, incessant collapse of the national grid and vandalism of electrical installations amongst others. The Managing Director, EKEDC, Dr. Tinuade Sanda, who stated this at a customer engagement forum organised by the Electricity Distribution Company (EDC) in Lagos, said adequate measures are needed to be in place at different stages of the sector for improvement. She disclosed that EKEDC had gotten a loan from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which was being used in procuring and upgrading distribution infrastructure such as substations, feeders and transformers. Sanda, who was represented by Joseph Esenwa, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), EKEDC, said industry stakeholders from the generation, transmission and distribution were also working together to ensure that the power situation improves across the country as soon as possible. She assured customers under its Mushin Business District of prompt metering under the ongoing Meter Assets Provider (MAP) scheme, adding that the engagement was continuous and aimed at fostering the relationship between the DisCo and its esteemed customers. She disclosed that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission had approved the reintroduction of the MAP scheme, following the completion of the Phase Zero of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP). “Under the NMMP, free meters were distributed to customers and we are waiting for phase one of the programme.  However, the ongoing MAP scheme is to enable customers to purchase prepaid meters directly without delays. “We have the mobile MAP which we have launched in Festac District and customers are getting their meters within 72 hours. “My advice to you is that you should embrace this MAP and get your prepaid meters to avoid issues relating to estimated billing and other disputes.” Earlier, Chief Femi Ogunyemi, who spoke on behalf of the Community Development Associations and Mr. Afeez Lawal, Chairman, Customers Consultative Forum, EKEDC Mushin District, lauded the DisCo’s management for the engagement. They, however, decried the estimated billing being issued to unmetered customers especially with the poor power supply since the beginning of the year. The customers appealed to the DisCo to ensure that customers within their network were metered to stop exploitative tariffs.