Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Benin, Prof. Violet Aigbokhaevbo, yesterday, advocated for an increase in the number of law students admitted into the Nigerian Law School from the institution. Aigbokhaevbo made the call while taking the university’s Law Class of 1985 on a tour of facilities during a courtesy call on the faculty as part of its reunion activities in Benin. The dean said that the faculty now has facilities enough to increase the number from the current quota of 180 students. With the over 200 law graduates in 2021, she said about 50 students could not make it to Law school due to the quota system. The dean urged the Council of Legal Education of Nigeria to hasten its accreditation visit to the faculty towards increasing the quota. Prof. Violet Aigbokhaevbo, also commended the alumna of the faculty for sponsoring 20 indigent students to Nigerian Law School. She said the individual and collective supports from the old students, were giving hopes to many students, who would ordinarily had stopped off their studies noting that many amenities in the faculty were provided by old students. “I have to say this that our old students have been a beacon of hope for indigent students. “Initially, some of us in the faculty pull something together from our salaries to help these brilliant students, but who did not have means to go to law school. “But our old students have also joined in this gesture. About 20 are currently being sponsored by various alumni,” she said. The dean, however, urged the visiting set to help with a 32 seater bus for the faculty to assist in their engagement outside the school. In his address, Dr. Roland Otaro, chairman of the 1985 set promised the faculty ‘something huge’ from the set. Otaro said the gesture would be different from other personal assistance that member of the class would offer. He expressed the delight of the class members over the facilities on ground at the faculty. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) announced scholarship for two law students and a ₦300,000 annual prize for overall male best student from the faculty. ₦250,000 prize each was also announced  yearly for best graduating student in property law as well as best female graduating student by some members of the set. 