Download logo Communicating and advocating together is integral to facilitate one common voice that amplifies the development agenda. Media practitioners are a key player in reporting and raising awareness of development issues that drive inclusive and sustainable economic growth, gender equality, human rights and climate action.  The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Zimbabwe joined the UN family, Senior Government officials, development partners and the country’s media fraternity in participating in a workshop which was aimed at enhancing UN-media collaboration in articulating progress, challenges and way forward in accelerating the achievement of SDGs and the country’s agenda 2030. More than 60 delegates attended the workshop which included UN supported projects site visits in Manicaland from 30 May – 3 June 2022. A Zimbabwe-UN media action plan based on storylines and development issues identified during the workshop was developed after a week of cross learning and experience sharing with members of the media. In reference to climate change and a shift in media reporting, FAO highlighted that it is prepared to work with the media to ensure that there is balanced reporting on livelihoods and food security programmes by FAO and the UN in Zimbabwe. FAO encouraged the media, just like climate change, to change the way they were reporting on development issues in the country “FAO in Zimbabwe is committed to supporting formulation of the UN-media action plan as Co-chair of the planet pillar under the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF). The planet pillar focuses on environmental protection, climate resilience and natural resources management. In the context of reporting on development work especially on climate issues, change is the only constant, the climate is changing and so should the way the media report on it,” said Constance Pepukai, Assistant FAO Representative-Programmes speaking on behalf of Patrice Talla, FAO Subregional Coordinator for Southern Africa and FAO Representative to Zimbabwe. While citing the importance of the media in helping Zimbabwe achieve agenda 2030, the UN reassured media practitioners that it will continue to work with them through providing timely and well-researched climate adaptation publications. “Media plays a critical role in engaging the public and shift negative or neutral attitudes towards appreciation of the dire climate crisis and the urgency for action. In this regard, the UN will continue to work with media through providing timely and well researched climate adaptation publications,” said Edward Kallon, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Zimbabwe in his remarks officially opening the workshop. In implementation of the planet pillar under UNSDCF, the expected outcome by 2026 is that all people in Zimbabwe, especially the most vulnerable and marginalized, benefit from greater environmental stability and robust food systems in support of healthy lives and equitable, sustainable and resilient livelihoods. FAO had the opportunity to present its work under the planet pillar as well as showcasing some of its projects in the province. “The workshop was an eye opener to most journalists. I realised we were not doing enough when it comes to development reporting. There is need for us to have a deeper understanding of issues, projects and programmes to write balanced stories that inform and educate communities. Development stories should also have voices of the community, beneficiaries of the programmes and how they feel about developments in their areas,” said Elita Chikwati, an agriculture reporter with the Herald newspaper as she reflected on her experiences and lessons from the workshop. “The 12 month UN-Media action will ensure follow-up of over 200 storylines identified along the 2022-2026 Zimbabwe UNSDCF pillars of people, prosperity, planet, peace and partnerships in support of Zimbabwe’s 2030 agenda and the achievement of the 17 SDGs,” said Sirak Gebrehiwot, the UN Communications Group Chairperson in his remarks as the one-week long workshop ended. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FAO Regional Office for Africa.