Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has challenged police officers to wear their ranks with honour and dignity. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachuku, the governor charged newly-promoted police officers working in Douglas House to wear their new ranks with honour and dignity as the first step towards earning promotion in the future. The governor gave the charge at the decoration of four newly-promoted police officers, three from the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) to the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) and the fourth officer confirmed as ASP. At the event that was held at the Governor’s Office Owerri, yesterday, Ahmed Gana, Abdulmalik Mohammed and Mohammed Suleiman were decorated with the rank of DSP while Ibrahim Abudala was confirmed ASP. Uzodimma, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie, acknowledged the efforts of the security agencies in the maintenance of peace as well as protection of life and property in the state and the country at large. He commended them for their unrelenting efforts despite all odds. Anyaehie, on behalf of the people and government of Imo, thanked the Police Service Commission (PSC) and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) for finding the officers worthy of promotion to their new ranks. While congratulating the four officers, he charged them to avoid anything that will drag their names to the mud and rubbish the hard work that merited them the promotions. Addressing the officers earlier, the Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Barde, represented by DCP Femi Haruna, advised the officers to endeavour to always carry out their assignments with utmost responsibility, “bearing in mind discipline, which the police force is known for.” Emphasising that discipline is paramount in the force, he urged officers at all levels to avoid any behaviour that will tarnish the image of the profession. He further encouraged police personnel still expecting to be promoted to continue to work hard and trust God that in due course they would be remembered. 