Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has stressed the need for concerted efforts in implementing policies and programmes aimed at protecting the environment to promote healthy living. Speaking during the 2022 World Environment Day, which was marked yesterday with the theme, “Only One Earth”, in Yenagoa, Diri noted that poverty reduction and environment protection work together and must be taken seriously. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, decried practices against the environment such as tree felling, indiscriminate burning of bushes, unhealthy use of chemicals for edibles and illegal refining of petroleum products. He called on inhabitants of Mother Earth to behave responsibly in their interactions with the environment, saying government would continue to support efforts targeted at protecting the environment. Diri directed the Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Lands and Housing to allocate land for the commencement of Bayelsa Central Nursery and the establishment of a world-class eco-laboratory. He said: “The commissioner for environment had highlighted positive signals and trends that I am confident if sustained and strengthened over time, would offer Bayelsa State the opportunity to advance the narrative for a more sustainable future for us all. “Within the limits of available resources, the government of prosperity continues to fully support the Bayelsa State Ministry of Environment and sister agencies and it has resolved to have them equipped to adequately deliver on their mandate to monitor and protect the environment.” In his welcome address, Commissioner for Environment, Chief Iselema Gbaranbiri, stated that government was conscious of the need to protect the environment, hence the deployment of a new legal regime and policy framework, which shall be unveiled in no distant time. Delivering a lecture at the event, the Dean, Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Niger Delta University, Prof. Meeting Andaowei, advocated the enforcement of laws protecting the environment and encouragement of environmental education in schools.