Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan (UI),  Professor Kayode  Adebowale, has solicited the assistance of the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) towards the establishment of a football academy in the university. In a statement, yesterday, by Adejoke Akinpelu, who is the Principal Assistant Registrar/Public Relations Officer, Directorate of Public Communication of the institution, Professor Adebowale made the appeal during a courtesy visit by a five-man delegation of FIFA to his office. The VC said he would love to leave the football academy as one of the legacies of his administration. He stated that the academy would be useful to UI, as well as Nigeria as a country, noting that FIFA, as an international organisation, has more influence and is thus better placed to help make the academy a reality. The vice chancellor also called for collaboration with FIFA in Sports Science and Medicine. Responding, the leader of the FIFA team, Solomon Mudege, a member of the associations’ division of FIFA, said his organisation was always ready to encourage development programmes to advance football in Africa. He said this explained why FIFA was cooperating with the Pan African University to promote its Sports Management programme. The FIFA delegation was in UI to facilitate a workshop for the MSc. Sports Management students of the Pan African University Life and Earth Sciences Institute, University of Ibadan and Postgraduate students of Sports Science. On the FIFA delegation were Mrs. Fatou Binetou Ba, a FIFA consultant; Dr. Nonhlanhla Mkumbuzi, a FIFA consultant; the Director of PAULESI,  Professor Esther T. Akinlabi; HOD, Human Kinetics/Programme coordinator, Professor O. A. Adegbesan; Deputy Director of PAULESI, Dr. M.A. Oladunjoye; Engr O. Okewale, ICT Officer and Mr. K. A.  Osunlana, Admin Officer at PAULESI. Present with the vice chancellor were the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Administration, Professor Olusola Ayoola; Deputy Vice-Chancellor Academics, Professor Aderonke Baiyeroju; Dean of Education, Prof O. A. Fakolade; Dean of Students Affairs, Professor I. A. Abiona; Deputy Registrar in the Office of the Vice Chancellor, Mrs. Morenike Afolabi and the PAR/PRO, Mrs. Adejoke Akinpelu.