Explain VP’s sacking of Daura as DSS boss 
Northern youths have commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to pick his successor, while canvassing support for the emergence of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate. The youths, under the aegis of Coalition of Arewa Youth and Women For PYO 2023, stated in Kaduna State, yesterday, that the only APC aspirant, who has been tested for the presidency, is Osinbajo. The statement, issued by the group’s spokesperson, Mohammed Lawal, noted that Buhari was soliciting the governor’s support to pick his successor. Lawal stated: “This is not a coincidence, but a divine voice guiding the President to steer in the right direction and hand over the mantle of leadership to the best man for the job. “Although there are so many presidential aspirants, only one of them is standing taller, higher, more competent, accepted, tested and trusted. The man, who has been Acting President, a professor of Law, an exceptional political breed, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, has the potential to deliver the nation from the woods.” According to him, this intelligent pillar of hope, vibrant, disciplined leader and workaholic has vast knowledge and experience. MEANWHILE, the group has explained that Osinbajo, as Acting President, sacked the then Director-General of Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Daura, for his reckless invasion of the National Assembly. It described the VP as key to the success of Buhari’s administration and that of Nigeria. Due to Osinbajo’s wealth of experience, strategy and political mastery, Buhari left him in charge when he travelled in 2017 and 2018, Lawal said, while describing the VP as a unifying factor much needed to govern the country. His words: “Across Nigeria, from North to South, East to West, you find Osinbajo with the Muslims and Christians, Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo, Igede, Idoma, Ibibio, Ikwere, Itsekiri and others for unity, peace and development to prevail in Nigeria. “He is a detribalised Nigerian, a man who is only defined by his humanity, philanthropy and respect for all, irrespective of tribe, religion and political affiliation. He is, indeed, a symbol of national unity.” 