Former Super Eagles captain John Mikel Obi, at the weekend, showered prizes on outstanding athletes that emerged from the maiden edition of the Back2Base talent hunt programme held at the UNILAG Sports complex, Lagos. Mikel was present all through the three-day talent hunt programme, while Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, attended the final on Saturday. Mikel said he was very impressed with the level of skills exhibited by the youngsters, who participated in the three sports; Football, Basketball and Tennis. While the former Chelsea star promptly fulfilled the cash rewards to the outstanding athletes across the three sports, he also promised to do his best to ensure they are given more platforms to actualise their dreams of becoming superstars in their chosen fields. “I am very happy with the success of this first edition,” Mikel said. “For me, all the children are winners because they are all talented in one way or the other, and they have shown they all have a bright future ahead of them. I hope to see them get good clubs here in Nigeria and abroad so they can continue to improve on their skills and keep getting better.” Having seen the large turnout that greeted the first edition, Mikel, who was last year appointed as Youth Ambassador by the Federal Government, assured he will make bigger plans to accommodate more youngsters in subsequent editions of his new project. Emma Jebutu and Toyin Asogba emerged as the most outstanding boys and girls in the tennis category. The duo thanked Mikel and the other brains behind the Back2Base talent hunt programme. They said they hope to play in the Grand Slams very soon. In the basketball event, Ayomide Lasisi, Chika Okafor and Kunle Adesuyi were selected as the top three performers. On their part, the trio of Abebayo Mubarak, Monday Pius and Samuel Adefeso were the top three players from the football event. Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Avianna and Harvey Entertainments, Ahmed Fadekemi, who midwifed the Back2Base talent hunt programme, said that aside from the N6 million shared across the outstanding athletes, the youngsters also had a dinner and mentorship session with Mikel.