Party plans fresh poll to accommodate gov Former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Bauchi, Ibrahim Kashim, has relinquished the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship ticket he clinched at last week’s primary in the state. Governor Bala Mohammed, who contested the party’s presidential election and lost to Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has indicated intention to re-contest the governorship seat. Kashim, told The Guardian yesterday: “It is absolutely true that I have withdrawn my candidature. I know right from day one that if the governor didn’t get the PDP presidential ticket, I will definitely step down for him (to vie for re-election). The report that I have problem with him on anything is absolutely false. “How can you stop somebody who is working from continuing his work? For me, it was a no-brainer at all. I have already submitted my withdrawal letter to the party in Bauchi before I left for Abuja.” PDP has said it would conduct a fresh governorship primary to allow Governor Mohammed contest. Mohammed garnered 20 votes in the presidential primary. There have been rumours that he purchased the governorship nomination form through Kashim. Bauchi PDP Publicity Secretary, Yayanuwa Zanabari, told The Guardian over the phone that the SSG withdrew his candidature on personal grounds; therefore, the party would conduct a fresh primary on Saturday. He said: “Yes, the former SSG has tendered his resignation as the party’s candidate. We are going to conduct a fresh governorship primary. We are doing that for the only aspirant; the executive governor of Bauchi.” But the party chairman, Hanza Akuyam, had after the primary election held on May 25, said that Mohammed did not purchase forms and was not screened and with that has no reason to be part of the governorship primary election. However, Mohammed’s name and picture featured on the ballot paper that produced Kashim as PDP candidate. Hamza said: “That was an error from the national. He didn’t go for any screening; he’s not going for a governorship, so how can you get him on the ballot? He didn’t buy (governorship) form. It is just a typing or printing error or what do you call it?” he said.
  Kashim polled 655 of the 656 votes cast, and officials said one vote was invalid.