•Church opposes Muslim/Muslim ticket, Reps aspirant canvasses credible leaders in 2023 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should, without further hesitation, disqualify presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Timi Frank, has urged. In a statement he personally issued in Abuja, yesterday, the Bayelsa State native also called on the ruling party to replace Tinubu if it hopes to be on the presidential ballot for 2023. His demand followed the controversial educational qualification claims by the Lagos State ex-governor as contained in his presidential nomination forms recently published by the electoral umpire. Frank, who is United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP) Ambassador to East Africa and Middle East, said the issue about Tinubu’s basic education certificates or lack of it represents a test case for INEC, as it would form one of the yardsticks to determine its partisanship or non-partisanship as the 2023 general elections approach. His words: “By not presenting his basic certificates as required by law for those running for political offices in the country, Tinubu stands automatically disqualified from partaking in the presidential race.” He added: “Inconsistencies in Tinubu’s several depositions over the years before INEC show that he is either being evasive or attempting a cover-up, an action that is a direct breach of the Constitution.” Frank alleged that the United States of America’s Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), had in a letter to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), dated July 28, 2011, with File No. 80-LG-C110, made it categorically clear that Tinubu never “enrolled as a student” at the Chicago State University he claimed to have studied. The ULMWP envoy insisted that the electoral body and APC must unravel the circumstances to determine if the embattled ex-governor could or could not continue as a presidential candidate. THIS is even as the leadership of Christian Reformed Church Nigeria (CRC-N), at the weekend, deplored the reported ongoing plans by the ruling party to present a Muslim/Muslim ticket for the forthcoming polls. The religious institution made its position known in a communiqué made available to reporters in Jalingo shortly after the church’s 154th synod, where it urged the party to discard the proposal by ensuring the emergence of a Christian running mate from the North. The document, which was jointly signed by the church’s President/ Taraba State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. (Dr.) Isaiah Magaji Jirapye and the General Secretary, Rev. Sagarga Nuvalga, reminded APC that Nigeria remains a secular state. Following the aloofness of Christians to political activities, the gathering charged church leaders to raise politicians and teach their members the rudiments of politics. BESIDES, one-time Deputy Chief of Staff to Imo State Government, Chief Chikwem Onuoha, has advised Nigerians to elect individuals capable of repositioning the country for greater good of all come 2023. Giving the advice yesterday in Owerri, Onuoha, who is Labour Party standard-bearer for Okigwe North Federal Constituency of Imo State in next year’s general elections, stated that APC had allegedly proven that it had nothing more to offer, “hence the reason for Nigerians to seek and embrace an alternative for total transformation in 2023.” He said his intention to vie for the House of Representatives seat was to facilitate overall development of his constituency. “I am not going to the Green Chamber to financially enrich myself, but to render effective service and leadership. As you are aware, Okigwe (North) Federal Constituency is bereft of tangible development. We don’t have any functional Federal Government establishment. In fact, we are one of the most underdeveloped in Nigeria. And by the grace of God, if I get to Abuja in 2023, all of this will change,” Onuoha added.