Oil and gas outfit, Rainoil Limited, has again shown its commitment to promoting healthy living, fitness, and bonding among its employees, as it kicks off its 25th-anniversary celebrations with sporting activities in Lagos. Tagged ‘Rainoil Sport Day,’ it supports staff fitness, competitiveness, motivation, team spirit, increased brain power and bonding to ensure they perform better in the workplace. According to the company, it is also aimed at encouraging togetherness and peace, with the participation of staff grouped as Team Integrity and Team Excellence. The celebrations also feature a novelty match between Rainoil and Eterna Plc, a sister company. Speaking at the event, Group Managing Director of Rainoil Ltd, Dr. Gabriel Ogbechie, reiterated that the company is not only committed to the development of the petroleum downstream value chain, which is critical to Nigeria’s economic growth but also devoted to the growth of its employees, who, he described as the company’s greatest assets. According to him, promoting fitness is one of the most beneficial choices any employer can make to encourage its workers to reach their full potential, adding that the sports day provides a bonding moment that allows employees to get to work out with other colleagues while taking a break from their job. “I am highly excited today about the events lined up to celebrate our 25 years in operation. As you can see, a good number of our staff are here to be part of the sports day and that shows their readiness to be industrious because it is only a fit mind that can be productive. “As a matter of fact, this is 25 years of great feat, we are careful to return all the glory to God who has been our help thus far because statistics have shown that 80 per cent of companies don’t survive beyond the first five years of its establishment,” he stated. He noted that the Sports Day is just to mark their anniversary, adding, however, that on yearly basis, the company is committed to various social investment projects in various places in the country, especially in their host communities. Also he affirmed that there would be a special CRS event to mark the anniversary. Rainoil organises on yearly basis, Rainoil Yearly Tennis Tournament, which holds either in Ikoyi Club of Lagos Country Club, Ikeja. “It’s a yearly tournament, in which we bring the best tennis players in the country, to play and earn good prizes for themselves,” he said. The sports day featured drills, scrabble, chess, spoon and egg race, sack race, 50m dash, relay race, tug of war, three-legged race and football.