As Nigeria’s entertainment industry continues to witness a rise of some talented entertainers, Bright Chimezie Uzoma, known by his stage name as ‘Adviser’ has chosen the part of comic entertainment following the impacts of the industry among the youths and economic growth. Uzoma, who is a stand-up comedian, actor, and event planner, is the host of a friendly comedy concert tagged “The Calling Of Adviser” in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. The show is an annual comedy event that is spiced with music, designed for family and friends. The maiden of the event was held in 2013 in Port Harcourt and subsequent series of the same event was held in Abia and Cross Rivers States respectively. Adviser, an indigene of Imo State and a Biotechnology graduate of Federal University Of Technology Owerri (FUTO), has featured both in comedy and noncomedy shows across Nigeria and also has some awards. A statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his Media Assistant, Otuonye Childera, noted that in 2010, Comedian Adviser was declared Winner of IMO Got Talent. He won Big E comedy open mic 2012, he emerged as a Winner of swag tv Int’l, fast-rising comedian of the year 2013, Winner Best Comedy Show of the year 2016, Bae Award for Best Dressed Comedian 2017, I- inspired talent hunt Best Gospel Comedian 2017, Winner G-influence fast-rising comedian of the year 2015, among others. The statement noted that he was a finalist in Stand Up Nigeria 2011/2012 and Alibaba Spontaneity Finalist 2015 and he had his first West African tour in 2019 in Ghana, Togo and the Republic of Benin. The statement reads, “Some of the events he has featured include; AY LiVE Port Harcourt, Day of a thousand laugh, Chronicles Of Ushbebe PH, UYO and Lagos, Crack Ya Ribs, Akpororo Vs Akpororo Lagos and Abuja, Owerri must Laugh, Alibaba 1st January Show, FunnyBone Untamed, Acapella My Mic and I, amongst others” “He has also hosted a comedy concert in United Arab Emirates alongside Real Warri Pikin, Hon Madiba, Mc Awilo , KingJames, Mc Fst among others.” The statement noted that in 2020, he was featured in Akpororo live on stage United Kingdom and Turkey Tour, where he performed in six cities in UK, Scotland, “Aberdeen” and Istanbul. “Due to his love for people and goodwill to his generation he has an annual charity/ praise concert titled “STREET JAMZ” where he create an atmosphere in the Street for people to enjoy themselves and keep believing in God. He also share food iteams, clothes and school materials for kids ( bags, book, pen and pencils. “Comedian Adviser is very creative, funny, caring, accommodating and fearless.He is one of the most spontaneous comedians in Nigeria today”. Childera noted in the statement.