Early intervention by Lagos responders, yesterday, averted colossal damage to properties, following a fire outbreak and accidents across the metropolis. Although, no life was lost or injury recorded in the incidents, The Guardian learnt that the fire, which started at about 1:00.a.m. ravaged a footwear warehouse at 118/120,Mandilas, Broad Street, CMS, Lagos, and destroyed goods worth millions of naira. A security guard, who claimed that the inferno was caused by a power surge, said prompt arrival of responders prevented the fire from spreading to other buildings. According to him, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Response Team, Lagos State Fire Service and Federal Fire Service, with support from Julius Berger Construction Company, which supplied two fire trucks battled the fire to standstill. When The Guardian visited the scene, the owner of the warehouse and his boys, supported by some officials of government agencies, were evacuating what was left of the goods. The security guard said: “I was called upon by the boys sleeping there to come and see the smoke coming out of the warehouse. “It was caused by power surge and the owner of the warehouse was also not helpful too because they packed loads on the electric wire and there is no ventilation.” Speaking on the incident, the Permanent Secretary, LASEMA,  Dr. Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyintolu, said the agency responded to the incident,  which was relayed to it through its toll free 112 emergency number. “On arrival at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a room in a warehouse where shoes are stored was gutted by fire. The fire was ignited as a result of power surge when electricity was restored. “Fortunately, there was no casualty in the incident. The Agency’s response team alongside LRU fire, Lagos State fire service and Federal fire service responders at the scene of the incident worked together to put out the fire. Also, Director, Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, Margaret Adeseye, said the agency got a distress call at 2:28.a.m,  and ran to the scene to prevent further damage on the first floor of the six-storey building.
IN a related development, LASEMA Response Team recovered a container truck that broke down at Sadiku Bus Stop Ilasamaja. The agency, who said it got information of the incident at 7:14.a.m yesterday, stressed that the vehicle veered off the expressway, while on motion and crossed to the service lane resulting in a total blockade of the entire service lane. LASEMA’s spokesperson, Nosa Okunboh,  said on arrival of LRT at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that the empty 40fts containerised truck was involved in a lone accident. “Further information gathered at the scene revealed that while on motion, it veered off the expressway and crossed to the service lane thereby blocking the entire service lane. “The immediate cause of the incident was due to reckless driving. No life was lost, nor injury recorded. LRT and NPF were responders at the scene. “The Agency’s heavy duty equipment were deployed for swift evacuation of the incident and the accidented containerised truck had been successfully recovered off the road and handed over to the divisional traffic officer from Okota police station.” MEANWHILE, the Epe squad of LRT, yesterday morning, recovered an accidented mini bus marked: FST-811XZ, which incident occurred at Okeoso junction inward Ikorodu Expressway.
The agency said it got the information at 9:18a.m. regarding the incident. 