The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has announced plans to drive Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) development in the country. The move, according to the Chamber, is due to the fact that SMEs are veritable tools for economic growth and development. The Vice president and Chairman, Trade Promotion Board, LCCI, Leye Kupoluyi, stated that the Chamber’s goal is to see today’s SMEs grow to become multinationals leveraging the Lagos International Trade Fair (LITF). Kupoluyi stated this at the special media parley to herald the 2022 LITF scheduled to hold from November 4th to , 2022 at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. “We will continue with our generic theme, “Connecting Businesses, Creating Value”. The aim of this media parley is to continue the excellent relationship existing between the LCCI and the media. We intend to improve on the support and interaction with all our media partners for mutual benefits. This parley will also give us an opportunity to clarify issues on LITF,” he said. According to him, the LITF will accommodate both local and foreign businesses, adding that about 30 organisations from India have already indicated their interest to participate at the yearly event with discussions ongoing with other Embassies “It is also pertinent to inform you that the chamber will ensure early construction of your stands so that you can settle down on time. Our media centre will be equipped with dedicated Internet facilities to enable uninterrupted communication with your offices. We are working to improve all the facilities that would make the fair a hitch free event. “As we solidify this relationship, we will ensure that all the terms of references and deliverables are adhered to while expecting a wide publicity for LITF particularly before the Fair begins,” he said. He added that this year’s fair would have a general consumer fair that will be held at the main bowl and adjoining venues of the TBS, maintaining that there is going to be business to business meetings simultaneously at a choice venue within the TBS. “A conducive environment would be created for local and international investors to network for possible investment opportunities. The Africa Hall, as was done in previous LITF, will be dedicated to exhibitors from across Africa countries to further explore opportunities for cooperation in trade, industry and investment among African countries to promote the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement initiative for economic integration and shared prosperity of the Africa continent,” he explained. “We are also introducing the national halls which is a new initiative that aims to bring exhibitors from each country together under one roof to promote country-wide agenda in a unique way. By design, countries are to book space to erect pavilions which will be occupied by their nationals (businessmen in the months ahead, we shall unveil women and diplomats) countries that have keyed into this initiative,” he added. 