“Couples should be open and transparent with finances,” said Mr. Olayiwola Abiola, a marriage and financial coach, while speaking on steps towards achieving intimacy in marriage at Sexitimacy 3.0. He observed that most couples were financially unfaithful to their partners, which have resulted in troubled homes. “A man wants to come back home to a peaceful home and spend quality time with his wife and family but not with a cheat,” he said. He listed ways to identify persons who are financial adventurers, financial wasters, financial nurturers and financially frugal and know their matches. He urged families and singles to see professional counsellors when faced with financial challenges in their relationship or marriages.     
 
Convener of Sextimacy and media expert, Uzo Ododo-Oba, also spoke at the event, which held with the theme “Wet and Wild” held in Bespoke Hall Lekki, Lagos. She disclosed that the platform has made couples to wax stronger in marriages, mended battered homes and given sex education to the public. Uzo appreciated all the sponsors, partners and people from the diaspora for supporting the programmes and projects of the organisation. Speaking, Dr. Fred Star, a family physician, appealed to men to go for medical check of their organs yearly. Addressing the audience on erectile dysfunction, Star said research has shown that the male private organs could mirror a healthy or unhealthy heart. He cautioned men to desist from self-medication or abuse of sex enhancing drugs, which could damage the liver, kidneys or heart. He also noted that some drugs for the treatment of diabetes and high blood pressure could affect sexual performance and advised the participants who have such cases to consult a doctor. Another coach, Soul Spice urged couples to invest on their sex life and education as they do in all aspects of their life.
   
She urged them to study the anatomy of their spouse’s body, know how to get the best out them and learn from different workshops. Spice observed that most couples have boring sex life at home because they are not innovative. 