 Actor Amber Heard arrives in the courtroom at the Fairfax County Circuit Court in Fairfax, Va., Thursday, April 28, 2022. Actor Johnny Depp sued his ex-wife actor Amber Heard for libel in Fairfax County Circuit Court after she wrote an op-ed piece in The Washington Post in 2018 referring to herself as a “public figure representing domestic abuse.” (Michael Reynolds/Pool Photo via AP) Amber Heard still has opinions regarding her ex-husband Johnny Depp, and the 36-year-old Aquaman actress has revealed her intention to appeal the judgement that she defamed Johnny Depp. “As stated in yesterday’s congressional hearings, you don’t ask for a pardon if you are innocent,” a spokesperson for Heard said, per The Los Angeles Times. “And you don’t decline to appeal if you know you are right.” The announcement is the result of Johnny, 59, and Amber’s attorneys’ inability to reach a settlement prior to the entry of the final judgment. The news wasn’t entirely unexpected because Amber’s spokeswoman has already stated that she intended to appeal the guilty decision against her on June 2. The actress’s attorney, Elaine Charlson Bredehoft, acknowledged that she is unable to pay the $10 million fine issued on her for penning an opinion piece for The Washington Post in 2018 that, according to Johnny, strongly implied that he had abused her. Amber also had a two-part interview with Savannah Guthrie for Dateline, which ended on June 17. She revealed shocking details in it, such as the fact that she still loves her ex-husband, and provided “years” worth of therapy notes that she claims demonstrate physical abuse. “There’s a binder worth of years of notes dating back to 2011 from the very beginning of my relationship that were taken by my doctor, who I was reporting the abuse to,” Heard told Savannah. She also said she hopes to continue moving forward, despite the fact that Johnny sued her even after his devastating 2020 loss against The Sun in a UK court. “Taking all the evidence together, I accept that she was the victim of sustained and multiple assaults by Mr Depp in Australia,” said Mr Justice Nicol, who presided over that case. “I look forward to living my life and I have a long one, I hope, in front of me,” Amber told Dateline. “And I will continue to walk through this with my chin up.” According to reports, the actress is considering whether to write a book about the connection. 