 Kyiv, Ukraine – September 5, 2019: A paper cubes collection with printed logos of world-famous social networks and online messengers, such as Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, Telegram and others. (Kyiv, Ukraine – September 5, 2019: A paper cubes collecti Nothing beats meeting someone new, bonding over a shared interest, and falling in love. However, there is a risk of it turning ugly if you meet the person online. Every year, the number of social media users increases significantly. As social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and SnapChat connect people from all over the world in seconds, the world is gradually becoming a global bedroom. While social media is a great tool for connecting with family and friends, meeting new people, staying up to date on the latest trends, and temporarily escaping the harsh realities of life, it is also a medium for you to get catfished. Catfishing occurs when you meet someone online, engage in a series of conversations, and establish a romantic relationship with him/her only to discover that they lied about their identity. For example, Mr. A meets Mrs. B, who tells him she is a blonde and fair woman and even sends him a photo as proof. After a few months, Mrs B begins to ignore Mr A, so he conducts an investigation and discovers that the picture Mrs B sent him earlier belongs to another woman. Simply put, Mr. A has been catfished. Since the rise of social media, this act has become a trend that many people have fallen victim to, resulting in a slew of emotional and financial problems. Here are five warning signs of a catfish to help you avoid becoming a victim. No profile picture If you come across an account with no profile pictures, one word to describe your next action is “Run.” In an age where anyone with a smartphone and data can easily set up an account and join the billions of social media users, it is critical that you take certain precautions. If you receive a message from a user who does not have a profile picture, do not respond because the likelihood is that they want to remain anonymous, avoiding the possibility of whatever they say or do traced back to their true identity. Sounds perfect Many times in our lives, we have encountered people whose lives appear to be too good to be true. A catfish’s quality is that he or she tries to paint a perfect picture of his or her life. This entices you to fall in love with him/her, creating an ideal opportunity for exploitation. An example is if you come across someone who has no flaws and fits your description of what an ideal man or woman is. Unless you meet the person in person, be careful, it might be a catfish. Dislikes video or phone calls It’s understandable that some people dislike seeing or hearing themselves speak. However, if after a few weeks of dating, he/she avoids communicating with you via video or audio means, something is wrong. Catfishes dislike video or phone calls because it reveals that they are lying, so they make up flimsy excuses to avoid them. Solicits funds Take note: most catfishes prey on their victims primarily for financial gain. When a guy or girl you met online starts requesting money within a month of meeting, he or she is a catfish. While some of them ask you for money directly, others use an emotional story to persuade you. In rare cases, the catfish quickly becomes a scam (419) when they use the relationship to persuade you to invest in a business or provide personal information. Sends professional photographs Catfish and fake photos are like 5 and 6; they complement each other perfectly. If he/she hasn’t sent a picture that isn’t a studio, well-edited, and perfectly shot picture, chances are those pictures aren’t his/hers. When dating someone online, ask them to send you selfies of themselves doing something, maybe like raising their hands up or laughing. If the pictures don’t look like the ones they have been sending you or they refuse, get suspicious. You can also tell if the photos he/she sends you are fake by running them through softwares such as Google Image Search, and Tiny Eyes Reverse. Inconsistency in stories, low engagement on social media posts, unwillingness to meet in person, and most importantly, your instincts red beep are all red flags. If you have any doubts about a person’s identity, don’t be afraid to confront or block them.