President Muhammadu Buhari has sent sympathies to the Royal Palace of the Obi of Owa Kingdom in Delta State on the passing of Princess Margaret Obaigbena, nee Usifoh, at the age of 88. Commiserating with members of the family, and Prince Nduka Obaigbena, Chairman of Thisday and Arise Group of Companies, President Buhari described the late Margaret as a pillar of strength for the family, an accomplished mother and revered community leader whose absence will be felt far beyond her immediate environment. Noting that her demise will create a great vacuum in the community, the President urged the family to take solace in the understanding that she lived her passion by caring for the distressed and disadvantaged. Buhari also eulogised the deceased’s steadfast disposition to servicing mankind, beginning early in life and reaching the peak of the nursing profession, channelling her energy and resources to the realisation of lofty convictions. President Buhari further condoled with the government and people of Edo and Delta states on the loss of the illustrious citizen who, according to him, contributed immensely to the development of the two states. The President said her role as special adviser to three governors of Delta State will remain indelible in the annals of the state, just as he prayed that God should grants her soul eternal rest. Also, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu commiserated with Nduka Obaigbena. In a statement issued yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu urged the deceased’s family, friends, associates and the entire people of Owa Kingdom and Delta State to immortalise the good name and legacy of the deceased. He said the death of the matriarch of the Obaigbena family was a loss not just to her children and family but to the people of Owa Kingdom, Delta State and the society at large because of her positive impact in the lives of many people during her lifetime. “No doubt the death of a loved one is usually painful as it is irreparable but we must always take solace in God especially for a good life spent by the deceased. We should be consoled by the fact that the late Princess Obaigbena lived an exemplary life and did her best for humanity both in private and public service,” the governor said. “She impacted many lives positively as a Nursing Officer in the old Bendel State Government and also served the state passionately in different capacities as Special Adviser to three different governors in Delta State. She lived a life of great accomplishments and left indelible footprints in her family, Owa Kingdom and Delta State. “The elderly and wise counsel of Princess Obaigbena will be sorely missed not only by her children and family but the entire people of the Owa Kingdom and Delta State at large. “I pray that God will grant the late Princess Margaret Obaigbena eternal rest and grant the family and associates the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” Governor Sanwo-Olu prayed.