Osun’s Gov. Gboyega Oyetola on Sunday in Osogbo reiterated his commitment to fulfil his campaign promises if re-elected on July 16. He enjoined the people of Osun to disregard the “falsehood being peddled around by the opposition that he would not fulfil his campaign promises if re-elected’’. He made the declaration at an engagement with members of Osun chapter of Automobile Technicians Association. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Oyetola said his foray into politics was for service delivery and not for personal gain or for deception. The governor, who specifically assured civil servants and retirees of his commitment to their welfare, urged them not to fall into the antics of the opposition. Oyetola said since the inception of his administration in the last three-and-half years, he had not reneged in the payment of pensions and salaries. He said the rumour by the opposition that he would stop the payment if re-elected was dirty politics taken too far. Oyetola assured that he would do more for the state in his second coming and urged the electorate not to allow desperate politicians to deceive them. “Since the beginning of our administration, we have spent N43 billion on payment of pensions to retirees and we will not stop. “Osun is also one of the few states in the country that has implemented the minimum wage and we have been consistent in the payment. “Those who are spreading falsehood that I will stop paying attention to the welfare of workers and our senior citizens are not to be trusted because they have nothing to offer,’’ he said. The governor assured that he would consolidate on the achievements his administration had made in the last three-and-half years if re-elected. Oyetola stressed that his administration would continue to take giant strides in the areas of education, infrastructure, health, empowerment and rural development, among others. He urged Osun people of voting age to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) and vote for him at the July 16 governorship election. Oyetola urged members of the association to support his re-election, adding that he would continue to provide the enabling environment for their businesses to thrive. In his remarks, chairman of the association, Mr Ajibola Akinola, commended the governor for the strides he had accomplished in the provision of infrastructure across the state. He promised that the association would support Oyetola’s re-election bid for the continuation of his good works. 