As part of efforts to promote green transportation, Minister of State for Transportation, Gbemisola Saraki, has said the ministry is building capacity and in the process of reviewing policy on Non-Motorised Transportation (NMT), in conjunction with the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP). Saraki also said the Road Transport Transformation Programme (RTTP) of the Road Sub-Sector strongly advocates the reduction of harmful greenhouse gases and is concerned about rolling out Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) buses and encouraging commercial operators to convert their engines to use CNG. She stated this, yesterday, at the maiden edition of National Transportation Technology Conference and Exhibition, organised by National Transport Commissioners’ Forum in Lagos. Saraki, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, said the ministry will not rest on its oars but will increase efforts in addressing infrastructure constraints, promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) in all mode of transportation, particularly, the road-subsector, enforce regulations, and monitor compliance. Speaking on the theme, ‘Multimodality and Inter-Connectivity: Achieving an Efficient and Greener Transport System in Nigeria’, she said multimodal transportation system allows the use of variety of transportation modes, including walking, cycling and other mobility devices, as well as public transit to a place designated for delivery. She said it leads to reduction in cost and time for coordination and operation of logistics; better control on management and less risk of merchandise theft or loss; and ensures continuous movement of goods and services along the best routes. In his remarks, Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said in today’s world, technology is a significant factor that affects economic growth, hence, every nation must set aside a part of its budget to fund technological inventions. He said: “I can boldly say that Lagos State has been in the forefront of investment in technology, especially in the transport sector, with the implementation of a huge investment in technology to address technical issues.” The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Folashade Jaji, said it is the state’s plan to integrate road, rail and water modes of transportation to make movement of people, goods and services across the state more effective and efficient. These modes of transportation, according to her, would be synchronised in a manner that would make movement fluid and also save time and money. She said: “We have remained resolute in our intention to complete existing projects such as the blue and red rail line systems, which are part of the inter-modal transportation system we set out in the strategic transport master-plan.” Outgoing Chairperson of Nigeria Transportation Commissioners, Rahmatu Muhammed, said technological innovations have made a profound impact on effectiveness and development of other economic sectors in developed and developing nations. She said the application of technological innovations in the health sector has resulted in more effective diagnostic and treatment processes, while the
application in the agricultural sector has increased productivity and supply of goods and services. She said: “We have witnessed the benefits of applying technologies ranging from the Use of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system to body cameras employed by the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), implementation of Computerised Vehicle Inspection Services, Drivers Testing Services, deployment of robust security system, known as the deep blue sea project, as well as improving rail services with the incorporation of e-ticketing etc. The benefits observed from application of these innovations are undeniably enormous.” She, however, added that the transportation sector has only scratched the surface of rapidly emerging technologies, which could enhance the primary objective of safety and security, as well as revenue generation at both state and federal levels: hence the conference designed to showcase these products, adopt services and improve the sector, starting at the grassroots. 