• Owo massacre will never happen again, Amotekun commanders assure S’West
• Defence chief vows to arrest attackers, declares war on political thugs
• Atiku donates N10 million to victims The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, yesterday, called for urgent intervention of the United Nations (UN) and other relevant international organisations on the raging spate of insecurity in Nigeria and the South-West in particular. In a letter signed by him, titled: “Avoiding a replica of the Bosnian War in Nigeria,” which was addressed to Secretary-General, United Nations (UN), Mr. António Manuel de Oliveira Guterres; European embassies, African Union (AU), among others, he said that Nigeria is currently in a precarious situation capable of destroying it. Adams said he was raising the alarm because the effect of the dangerous trend might ultimately balkanise Nigeria and affect other sub-Sahara Africa countries. MEANWHILE, commanders of the South-West Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, have assured the people of the region that they would synergise towards ensuring a repeat of the attack on St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, Owaluwa, Owo, Ondo State, never happen again. Ondo State Commander and Chairman of the Corps, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, who spoke on behalf of others, gave the assurance yesterday while receiving the corps commanders from the South-West states who came to condole with the state and Christian family in Owo over the gruesome killings. Adeleye appealed to residents to be vigilant, saying security is a business of all and should not be limited to law enforcement agencies alone. The Bishop of Ondo Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Jude Arogundade, who also received the corp commanders in his residence, thanked them for the visit and charged them to fish out perpetrators of the ungodly act. Similarly, the Deji of Akure and Chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, condemned the attack on strong terms. In his response, the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Ogunoye, commended the Amotekun commanders for effectively securing the South-West region. RELATEDLY, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, has vowed to ensure the arrest of the attackers and bring them to justice. He gave the promise while addressing newsmen during a briefing on the activities of the armed forces in the last two weeks at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja. Irabor also vowed that the military would have zero tolerance for election violence and thuggery during the 2023 elections. MEANWHILE, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has donated N10 million for the treatment of Owo attack victims. Atiku, who was represented by the PDP candidate in the last governorship election in the state, Eyitayo Jegede and members of the PDP State Working Committee during a condolence visit to the Owo Kingdom, yesterday, condemned in strong terms the killing of the worshippers.