The final of a football for peace competition, tagged, ‘Major General Ali Ramadan and Easter Football Peace Competition 2022,’ was held last weekend at Kafanchan Township Stadium, Jamaa Local Council of Kaduna State. Organised by Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) to promote peaceful coexistence among youths of Southern Kaduna, the organisers donated tricycles to people living with disabilities.
 
Speaking at the ceremony, Governor Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai, who was the special guest of honour, said peace is a necessity that all must strive to achieve. El-Rufai commended OPSH for continuously engaging the youth positively in activities that promote friendship and harmonious coexistence. In a statement by the Military Information Officer (MIO), Major Ishaku Takwa, the governor, who was represented by the Commissioner and Administrator of Kafanchan Municipal Authority, Mrs. Phoebe Sukai Yayi, revealed that the event had added to the modalities employed by the state towards involving all stakeholders to promote peace and security of the area.
 
Also speaking at the event, Commander, OPSH, Major-General Ibrahim Ali, said the event was part of non-kinetic activities employed to promote peaceful living and healthy competition among the youth. He enjoined the participants to use the opportunity to make friends, as well as support security agencies operating in their respective communities to achieve lasting peace.  In his speech, the Commander, Sector 7, OPSH, Colonel Timothy Opurum, commended the participants for the high level of discipline exhibited during the competition. He also commended the community leaders and the youth for the massive support to the programme. The event was attended by members of Kaduna State executive, local councils’ officials, traditional and community leaders, the clergy, as well as heads of security agencies in the area.
 
The highlights of the event were the presentation of trophies, medals and cash donations to winners, as well as presentation of tricycles to people living with disabilities. 