Operatives of Rivers State Police Command have arrested 30 suspects linked to different crimes across the state, while a child and seven kidnapped victims were rescued. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, who disclosed this at the parade of the suspects at the Command, yesterday,  said some of the suspects were involved in car theft, kidnapping and attempted procurement of arms among other crimes. Eboka noted that the suspects have made useful statements that will aid the arrest of some fleeing suspects, assuring that they will be brought to book within record time. He disclosed that they will be charged to court after the conclusion of investigations. He said: “ I want to share with you some lofty achievements we have recorded in the areas of crime-fighting. “We have the number of suspects paraded here at 30; the sum of N1.3 million, six arms, eight ammunitions, one magazine, were recovered, while seven kidnapped victims and one child were rescued. “I want to reassure residents of the state that we are not going to rest on our oars to eradicate crime in Rivers State.” The commissioner noted that operatives of the C4i Intelligence Unit, while on intelligence report, followed up a case where one David Kalu Onyems, ‘m’, was kidnapped between Abia and Rivers State boundary on May 19, 2022, by a kidnap syndicate of 12 teenagers and on June 2,  arrested one Ubong Emmanuel,  who confessed to the crime and led the operatives to a shallow grave,  where the victim was buried. One of the suspects, Goodness Kalu Smart, male, 18 from Abia State, said: “I was involved in the kidnapping and the idea came from my boss. His name is Donald. He is from Rivers State. He introduced me to the kidnapping team and made us swear an oath. “The first kidnapping job we did, I did not go with them but I slept in the bush with the victim, the same with the second job but the third one I was fully involved. “After the victim died, our boss told us that since the man had died there was nothing for us. After three days, unknown to me our boss collected the man’s Sim card, he called me to go and pick up a package for him, which I did without knowing the content of the parcel. “ I went to the place and I met a man who gave me a bag filled with money and according to the man, he said it is N2 million. Mr. Donald took the bag from me and I did not know it was from the man that died. “So, after weeks I heard that two of my friends were arrested only for me to visit my mum a day after on the Saturday I was arrested alongside my mother.” 