…fault the conduct of the guber primary
Ahead of the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains of the party from Akwa Ibom and Cross River states have raised the alarm over what they described as fake delegates list. Chief Don Etiebet, who spoke to reporters on behalf of party faithful in Abuja, claimed the party in Cross River State had foisted persons, who did not win any election at any congress monitored by INEC as state executives in Akwa Ibom State. The former petroleum minister warned that the presidential primary runs the risk of not producing a validly nominated candidate in line with the electoral laws, if the issue is not addressed by the leadership of the party. Flanked by the immediate past caretaker secretary of the party, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, and former House of Representatives member, Mrs Iquo Inyang, he also described the conduct of the governorship primary as inconsistent with the provision of Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act. He appealed to leaders of party to intervene and have the situation redressed by directing the conduct of proper governorship primary in line with Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act. He warned that the party in Akwa Ibom State may not be in a position to present any validly nominated candidate except the issues were redressed immediately. ALSO, Cross Rivers stakeholders urged Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) to ignore what they termed the ‘fraudulent’ list of delegates sent by the party in the state ahead of the convention. Led by Chief Francis Ekpenyong, the group, in a statement in Abuja, claimed they remained authentic delegates having paid for nomination forms, participated in the process and emerged victorious. They noted: “The attention of members and stakeholders of APC, Cross River State chapter has been drawn to the fraudulent, meddlesome interference and day-light theft of mandates of members of the party in the state, who were elected national delegates in the just-concluded national delegates election of May 17, 2022. “As members and stakeholders, we are very concerned and write to state that the party should follow its constitution and guidelines as it relates to the national delegates lists submitted to the party. “For the avoidance of doubt, we hereby state clearly that Governor Ben Ayade, Hon. Legor Idagbor, Alphonsus Ogar Eba, Sen. Stephen Adi Odey, Dr. Thomas Uko Aruku, to mention a few, did not take part in the national delegates election and they are not delegates from their respective councils.” Ekpenyong urged the national leaders of the party to act fast and follow the already existing delegates lists sent to the national secretary. 