The governorship election in Osun State, scheduled to hold on July 16 is crucial to all the 14 political parties that have been certified by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to contest. But four parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Accord Party (AP) and Labour Party (LP) have demonstrated they are in the race to win.  The incumbency factor may work for Oyetola coupled with some landmark achievements, which his admirers regard as unique selling points. In addition, political watchers see Oyetola as a good resource manager, a good listener, a strategist and an easygoing personality. He is regarded in some political circles as a reliable politician, who strives to fulfil promises he made to the electorate.  Moreover, the general clamour in some political quarters to have a change in leadership in the next dispensation may also affect his chances. More critical to his smooth sailing during the election is the failure to reconcile with the other factions being openly backed by Aregbesola. Osun Progressives, which is headed by Aregbesola also parades notable politicians and leaders, who are capable of pulling a surprise and causing a serious setback for the governor at critical moments.  FOR Lasun, the immediate past Deputy Speaker in the National Assembly is a notable and experienced politician, who left APC to pursue his governorship ambition in Labour Party. He emerged as Deputy Speaker in a controversial manner.  Some fault him for that decision to hold the office against the will of party leaders. Others think Lasun took a good decision when they saw the positive things his service brought to the state.  He was one of those who contested with Oyetola in 2018 primary and refused to step down.  Adeleke had joined the PDP less than a month before the Senatorial bye-election after he faulted the conduct of the primaries of the APC, where he was a contestant. It was said that Adeleke rode on the sentiments people had for his late brother, Isiaka Adeleke, who occupied the Senatorial seat before his demise.
  
The 62-year-old politician has continued to enjoy the goodwill of his brothers – late Senator Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke and Dr Deji Adeleke. The late Senator Adeleke was the first civilian governor of the state, while Dr Adeleke is a businessman and father of popular musician, David Adeleke also known as Davido.  Dr Akin Ogunbiyi is not a new face in the political scene of Osun. But he is a new face in Accord Party, where he is the governorship candidate. Ogunbiyi who is an investment expert is the founder of Mutual Benefits Assurance, a globally recognised insurance conglomerate.
 
He ventured into politics in 2018 after he picked the nomination form under the platform of the PDP. Adeleke defeated him by just seven votes in the primary on July 23, 2018.
 
The Ile-Ogbo-born politician angrily defected to Accord Party after he withdrew his participation from the PDP governorship primary in March, this year, alleging that the process was skewed to favour Adeleke. Ogunbiyi clinched the ticket of the Accord Party, thereafter. Ever since he has been traversing the length and breadth of Osun canvassing for votes and reeling out his developmental manifesto to the electorates.  Notwithstanding the beautiful profile of the 61-year-old Accord Party governorship candidate, he still has issues to deal with. 