The Niger/Kogi Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said it has made a total of 101 seizures of contrabands with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N755 million in its anti-smuggling activities in three months. The Customs Area Controller (CAC), Comptroller Abubakar Adamu disclosed this yesterday, during his maiden press conference at the command’s headquarters in Minna. According to a statement, Adamu said the command detained exotic vehicles and intercepted 23,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), 140 rolls of large size foreign rugs, 50 bales of second-hand clothing, eight motorbikes used as means of conveyance, 200 pieces of used tyres and 88 bags of 50kg each of foreign parboiled rice found inside some of the seized vehicles. Adamu said other seizures recorded within the command’s Area of Responsibility (AOR) during the period under review include: a Mitsubishi Canter vehicle loaded with assorted supermarket goods such as 7,200pcs of Heinz beans, 600pcs of Tomato-Ketchup, 240pcs of foreign wine, 528pcs of spaghetti, 2,400pcs of Plum peeled tomatoes, 2,400pcs of Mushroom pieces and stems, 360pcs of Heinz vinegar. Similarly, a Peugeot 35 bus loaded with 152pcs basmati rice, 1,080pcs of whipped cream, 23 cartons of skittles salad cream, 184pcs of various kinds of cookies, 18 packs of Nescafe and other items. The controller said the command, in its revenue recovery, made a total of N74 millon following the full operations of the Customs Processing Centre (CPC), the approved posting of the Post Clearance Audit (PCA) and Valuation officers to the command within a month, mainly from demand notices raised and the disposal of seized PMS. Adamu noted that eight suspects were arrested in connection with the seizures and are being prosecuted in court. According to him, the command deployed massive intelligence and applied the rules of engagement in its operations to achieve the feats, adding that no casualty was recorded. “The command had just taken 13 brand new Toyota Hilux and gun trucks for operational purposes. With this on the ground, we re-organised the operations of the command by creating additional roving teams; the command became unbearable to smugglers, those who ventured and non-complaint traders engaged in smuggling have stories to tell thus the outcome is the seizures we are showcasing today,” he said. The controller said the Federal Government’s directive on border closure is still in force in Babanna, which is the only border station in the command, hence, no export or import activities through the border until further notice. He warned smugglers and criminal elements that the command will always discover all illegal routes they use for their nefarious activities, make seizures, arrest and cripple their illegitimate businesses. The CAC further called on the general public to always assist with useful information, while also appreciating sister security agencies for the synergy that exists between them. 