After spending 38 days in the hospital where he was rushed for treatment over gunshot wounds, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Assembly aspirant for Enugu South Rural constituency, Enugu State, Mr. Ogbe Akaolisa, yesterday, narrated how he escaped death by the whiskers. Ogbe was attacked on April 16, 2022 at Amaechi, Enugu South council, while attempting to refuel his car, after attending the meeting of the nine wards in the area to canvas support for his aspiration. He said gunmen riddled his vehicle with bullets, but he escaped by stroke of luck to the waiting arms of soldiers on stop and search operations on the Enugu-Port Harcourt highway. After interviewing him, the soldiers took him to the hospital, where he had been receiving treatment since then. Consequently, Ogbe could not participate in the party primaries in May 22. Speaking to newsmen in Enugu for the first time since the incident, Ogbe alleged it was an “assassination attempt”, as he underwent series of surgeries to remove the bullets that were pumped into him. He stressed that the gunmen did not remove anything from the fuel station where he was attacked. He said: “On the 16th of April 2020, I was going on ward visitation; it was our normal ward day. I covered about nine wards, after which that evening, I wanted to refuel my car and turned into the Prince Nekky Filling Station, Amaechi and I was attacked. “It was a calculated assassination, but I escaped it by divine intervention with gunshot wounds. The bullets were all over my car. I was bleeding and I ran with my car,  but at the expressway, I met some  military officers on duty. “They interviewed me and took me to Niger Foundation hospital that very night. There were series of surgeries to stop the bleeding. “Ever since, I have been in the hospital. But my annoyance is that something like this happened to an aspirant and the party did not bother to ask.   That is very bad. If an aspirant like me, who wants to help the people was shot that way and nobody talked, then it leaves much to be desired. “ I am very disappointed with my party for not asking after me. Because of my surgeries and treatment, I couldn’t take part in the primaries. I know that Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is not aware of this. He is a kind person and if he had heard about it, he could have called.” Ogbe, who was still reeling in pain, thanked his supporters for not abandoning him and reassured them that it was not over for him yet. 