Why ISWAP killed B’Haram commander, others’ Many residents of Farfaru and Kwari communities in Jibia Local Council of Katsina State have fled their homes following an attack by terrorists on Saturday. During the attack on Farfaru, which occurred at about 03:00 p.m., an unspecified number of people, including women and children, were reportedly abducted. The residents, sources said, were seen trooping in their numbers by foot, motorcycles and vehicles, to the council headquarters. Several houses were reportedly razed, while household items and animals were carted away by the bandits, who were said to be on reprisal. Some of their members were reportedly arrested a few days ago by security operatives. The terrorists suspected that residents of the community gave their members away to security operatives, hence the attack. A source told The Guardian: “Security operatives, who later arrived Farfaru, saved us from further punishment in the hands of the terrorists. The security operatives drove them back to the forests. Many of us have relocated to Jibia for safety.” But about 9:30 p.m. the same day, a bloody attack was reported at Kwari. The Guardian gathered that patients from the affected community were sighted at a hospital in Jibia, some of them with gunshot wounds sustained while fleeing from the marauders. Spokesman for the police command in the state, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the incidents but did not immediately provide details on the development. Isah said he would contact the DPO in charge of the two communities for details and revert.
MEANWHILE, facts have emerged on how the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) killed Boko Haram commander, Ummate Ma, and other fighters last week in the axis of Chinene/Barawa, Borno State. Ma was the Governor of Boko Haram in the axis before ISWAP staged an ambush against him in the Mandara Mountains, east of Sambisa Forest. A counter-insurgency and security analyst, Zagazola Makama, stated yesterday, in Maiduguri: “The ambush against Ma’s convoy resulted in the neutralisation of dozens of Boko Haram fighters in the border communities with Cameroun.” Makama said the ISWAP terrorists in seven gun trucks and 10 motorcycles overpowered the Boko Haram terrorists. He added that ISWAP seized Boko Haram weapons, gun trucks and motorcycles used in terrorising border communities with Cameroun. “The Boko Haram commander was shot in the chest and several parts of his body before he gave up the ghost,” he said. The ISWAP-coordinated attack was apparently in response to the killing of a senior ISWAP Commander, Abou Buorubouru, and other terrorists. 