The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) has described its newly inaugurated Special Economic Zone Security (SEZSEC) outfit as the best move to further attract investments to the free zone areas. It is also expected to create a safe and secure environment for the zones’ employees, facilities, contracted service providers, members of the public, the special economic zones and NEPZA resources. The Guardian gathered that the outfit was borne out of the need to further strengthen existing security architecture and provide adequate security to lives and properties in the free zones. NEPZA Managing Director, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, disclosed this at the passing out ceremony of 40 SEZSEC officers at the weekend in Lagos. The one-month SEZSEC training was carried out in collaboration with the Department of State Services (DSS). Represented by Authority’s Director of Finance and Accounts, Dr. Oyesola Oyekunle, the NEPZA Chief Executive Officer said the authority had suffered its share of insecurity when hoodlums invaded the Tinapa Free Zone in Calabar, which led to several losses of investments. According to him, ‘’It is no gainsaying that this singular action will cause an upsurge of investment into the zones as investors look to invest in places where there is security,” He however, said that the outfit was not created to dislodge the existing zones’ security structure, rather it was established to reinforce the collaborative force of sister security services. In his remarks, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, said the decision to create the body was apt in order to secure and keep the special economic zones (SEZ) safe and give confidence to investors. Adebayo, who was represented by NEPZA’s Director, Policy Planning, Research and Statistics, Babagana Alkali, tasked the authority to make the zones more attractive to investors, provide high quality infrastructure and be a one-stop shop that would positively impact the economy. Also speaking, Commandant, States Services Academy (SSA), Salami Ajege, said the security outfit was expected to gather intelligence that would help combat economic sabotage, boost trade and other related activities wherever they were deployed. Ajege said to achieve their mandate; the unit would need to ensure professionalism in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities. He urged them to be smart, diligent, determined to succeed, discreet with information and be ever ready to confront challenges they will be faced with in discharging their duties. On his part, the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (rtd), urged the team to learn the rules that guide other government organisations they would work with to avoid stepping on each other’s toes. Ali, who was represented by Catherine Ekekezie, Deputy Comptroller-General in-charge of Excise, Free Trade Zones and Industrial Incentives Department, cautioned the personnel against going on a “one-man patrol” to avoid running into trouble. 