President Muhammadu Buhari has restated Nigeria’s commitment to a safer global climate, listing the country’s updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to include elimination of kerosene lighting by 2030, increase in use of buses for public transport and reduction in burning of crop residues. This is coming 10 years after the Federal Government, in collaboration with stakeholders in the petroleum industry, commenced drafting of a new policy to phase out kerosene and firewood usage and replace them with Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) otherwise known as cooking gas. The proposed policy tagged National Strategic Policy for LPG, has a five-year timeline to tactically phase out kerosene usage in the country. In a virtual meeting hosted by President Joe Biden of the United States, on Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate Change (MEF), President Buhari in Abuja, yesterday, said that an updated Nationally Determined Contribution to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change had been submitted to replace the interim contribution of May 27, 2021. “Our updated NDC includes the waste sector which is expected to contribute to the reduction of Nigeria’s greenhouse gas emissions. This development raised an additional two per cent to the Nationally Determined Contribution from 45 per cent to 47 per cent conditionally and 20 per cent unconditionally below business-as-usual. “Other action plans that are inherent in our NDC include elimination of kerosene lighting by 2030, increase in the use of bus rapid transit as a means of transportation for the general public, 50 per cent reduction in the fraction of crop residues burnt by 2030 and implementation of forest programmes. “There are plans for Initiatives to deliver 20 per cent Green House Gas emission reductions and enhanced removals equivalent to approximately 74.2 Metric tons of Carbon Dioxide by 2030, and ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol to phase out Hydro-fluoro-carbon emissions,’’ the President said. He also said that Nigeria was developing National Frameworks for Article 6 and for carbon pricing.  “We have finalised the Sectoral Action Plan for the implementation of the revised NDC in the key priority sectors, namely energy, oil and gas, agriculture and land use, power, transport and water and waste.’’ On the Global Methane Pledge, the President told the world leaders that Nigeria joined the Global Methane Alliance in 2019 with commitment to methane reduction targets of at least 45 per cent by 2025 and a 60-75 per cent reduction by 2030. “Nigeria’s 2019 National Plan to Reduce has started through the required voluntary actions, with an initial focus on elimination of Short-Lived Pollutants methane in the Oil and Gas sector. “Our plan aims to improve air quality and reduce Nigeria’s contribution to climate change through 22 specific mitigation measures in 8 source sectors (transportation, cooking and lighting in households, industry, waste, oil and gas, agriculture, power and Hydro-Fluoro-Carbon), as well as adoption and ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol aimed at phasing out Hydro- fluoro-carbon emissions. “The full implementation of these measures would be effective in reducing Short-Lived Pollutants, with an 83 per cent reduction in black carbon emissions by 2030 compared to a business-as-usual scenario, and 61 per cent reduction in methane emissions.” The virtual summit was addressed by about 20 presidents and prime ministers or their representatives. Those who personally did so include the host, President Biden, President Buhari, the German Chancellor, the President of Turkey, Prime Ministers of Japan and Canada as well as the Secretary General of the United Nations and the President of the European Commission.