Fight terrorism scientifically, ex-naval officer urges govt Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday, urged the government to halt security breaches in the country and prevent the establishment of camps for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the South as obtained in some parts of the North. In a statement issued by National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Jare Ajayi, Afenifere observed that the spate of attacks on communities and individuals in the South has escalated. The group urged state governors to meet President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly on the need to establish state police “as a matter of urgent necessity.” It said: “From all indications, state governors have a lot of clouts because the Constitution invests them with a lot of powers. They should, as chief security officers of their respective states, impress it on the powers that be in Abuja that the country is now at such a serious crossroads, security-wise, and they must be allowed to take the bull by the horns. They can do this by having state police. “Reports of armed attacks on communities, religious places, farmlands and sometimes homes occur almost every week, if not daily, in different parts of the country. Such used to be restricted to the North, North East, especially. But today, it has spread even to the South, which used to be safe.” MEANWHILE, an ex-naval officer, Commodore Kunle Olawunmi, has called on the Federal Government to change its method of using soldiers to attack terrorists in forests, describing it as old-fashioned. While speaking on a radio station, Nigeria Info, he advised the government to deploy scientific means to take over the country’s air space, map out terrorists’ hideouts, and use drones to strike major flashpoints without killing innocent citizens. He said: “I marvel when I see Nigerian soldiers kept in forests to chase terrorists and bandits, like Tom and Jerry. Modern-day fighting of terrorists is through scientific means. Nigeria has the money to get high-definition scientific gadgets to carry out accurate air surveillance that would figure out terrorists’ bases.” “When the military continues to use drones to attack them, they will have no option but run away to another country. Chasing people in the forests with guns and armoured tanks at all times is old-fashioned. The Nigerian military should change its strategy.”