To mark the first year remembrance of Pastor T. B. Joshua’s transition, Emmanuel TV Partners distribute food items, provisions, wrappers, worth over N10 million to orphanages, widows in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). As part of activities to mark one year memorial of the late General Overseer of The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations (SCOAN), Prophet T. B. Joshua, and build on his legacies, the Emmanuel TV Partners in Abuja, last week, donated assorted food items, provisions, and clothing materials worth over N10 million to four orphanages homes in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The beneficiaries include the Christ Foundation Orphanage Home for Children, Kuje Talented Orphanage, Trademoore Lugbe, Lady Kathryn, Berrarys Orphanage Home Karu, and City of Refuge Orphanage Home, Gishiri, all in the FCT. The group also shared cash gifts, wrappers, cartons of indomie noddles, a bag of rice each with over 400 widows in the FCT. It would be recalled that T. B.  Joshua died on June 5, 2021 at the age of 57 after meeting with his church’s TV Partners. Speaking during the evangelical outreach, the Coordinator of Emmanuel TV Partners, Mr. Samuel Tagbo, said that the gesture was a continuation of charity work, which the late Prophet was known for during his lifetime. He observed that while many people live for their pockets and stomach, Prophet Joshua lived for God and humanity, adding that the late Prophet was a great man, who looked out for the weak, the despondent, the vulnerable, and the oppressed. He said: “Prophet T. B. Joshua was a man of great faith. He was humble, selfless, courageous, gentle, generous, very accommodating, and faithful to His own. His passion for God could not be over-emphasised. He preached and exemplified love, living it out in the many lives he touched and transformed in his lifetime. He was a prayer warrior who attended to peoples’ needs with great humility. He was polite and kind to his detractors, and was greatly misunderstood, misinterpreted, and misrepresented. “He was dedicated to his flocks, his ministry, his nation. We are spreading this message of love and care for the orphans, widows, down-trodden and vulnerable persons in our midst. We love Jesus, the Author and Finisher of our faith. We love Prophet T. B. Joshua, who fought a good fight and finished well”. Tagbo observed that Prophet T. B. Joshua was a charismatic pastor and televangelist that recorded more than 15,000 attendees at his weekly Sunday services, adding that by the power of the Holy Spirit, he cured various ailments, and through his prayers performed miracles that brought transformation and prosperity to millions the world over. He noted that the late Prophet held crusades in Ghana, South Africa, Botswana, Colombia., Dominican Republic, Mexico, South Korea, Paraguay, Peru, and Israel, among others, and shook the world for Christ and won many souls for Jesus Christ. A Nigerian oil mogul, who is also an Emmanuel TV partner, and a beneficiary of the T. B. Joshua healing power, Chief Arthur Eze, described the late cleric as “an exceptional human being, who touched so many lives through his preachings, healing… and lifted many people across the globe out of poverty through his philanthropic work. ” He said: “God brought Prophet T. B. Joshua to save lives. He saved my own life and made me to trust God the more. God took his life, I know that God is wonderful and you can’t predict Him. When my leg was bothering me, he prayed and I was healed. When God took him away, I cried and wondered what the poor people, who depended on him for their daily need would do. T. B. Joshua was an exceptional human being. He went round the world and people accepted his miracle. God sent him, he started the Synagogue in hardship and temptation but he had faith in God. T. B.  Joshua left a very good legacy. The work of God will continue. He died young and Christ died young also. He worked 24 hours and God knows why He called him home. The wife will continue from where he stopped.” Arthur Eze, who is also a philanthropist, urged wealthy Nigerians to help the poor and not just keep accumulating wealth. He thanked the Emmanuel TV Partners for their commitment in taking care of the poor and needy in the society who struggle day and night looking for food.