Amid the challenges typical of a 20 million-plus population city in a third world country, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu came to office in May 2019 with the pledge to turn the corner on the infrastructural deficit. It was an ambitious promise that was soon dazed by unforeseen challenges that are potent enough to unsettle even the most prepared for the job. But most remarkable about the Sanwo-Olu administration is the tenacity and consistency to keep turning the wheel of development, come what may. And three years down the line, he has a scorecard of excellence to show for his efforts, though the desired finish line is still miles ahead.  According to data published on the Lagos State Government Official Website in April 2022, the roads include 34 roads at Kosofe, Somolu, Victoria Island and Ikoyi, a 384-capacity multi-level car park at Onikan, three networks of roads at Oniru, Victoria Island (Adeola Hopewell, Idowu Taylor and Afribank/Churchgate Streets), Ikoyi network of roads – Mac Donald road/Lateef Jakande Roads, Milverton Road and Thompson Avenue in Ikoyi, Eti-Osa Local Government as well as the Ijede Road Phase 1 in Ikorodu.
 
Others were the 1.4 km flyover and dual carriageway Pen-Cinema Bridge, Agege; Tedi-Muwo Link Bridge, Lagos-Ogun boundary roads in Alimosho and Agbado-Oke–Odo access roads. They also include 31 networks of roads in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Completed and commissioned the 13.68 kilometers Oshodi-Abule-Egba BRT corridor. The data also showed that the state reconfigured six Junction/Roundabouts – Allen, Ikotun, Maryland, Lekki and Ajah (under Traffic Management Intervention Plan (TMIP) and did 110 palliatives and 361 sectional rehabilitations on Roads across the State, while rehabilitating 650 inner roads through the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC).
 
One key road infrastructure that undoubtedly solved major traffic conflicts in Ikeja and environs as well as serves as a legacy project for the Sanwo-Olu administration was flagged off on January 27. It is the 3.89-kilometre-long Ojota-Opebi link Bridge that will open into the Ojota axis in Kosofe, taking traffic from Opebi U-turn and dropping it at Ikorodu Road via an intersection that will be constructed under Odo Iya Alaro Bridge at Mende. The road will be supported by 276 metre-long deck-on-pile bridge and 474 metre-long mechanically stabilised earth-wall approach sections.
  
The carriageway, which is a new connectivity, would create an easy exit for commuters leaving Ikeja-Onigbongbo axis towards Ojota and Maryland. The project was initiated to proffer a permanent solution to the inadequacies of the Opebi Link Bridge and the Opebi U-turn and to ease pressure on overburdened routes within Ikeja, with the objective to reduce travel time along the corridor. It is one of the ongoing major road projects amongst which are the Lekki-Epe Expressway, Agric-Isawo Road, Ikorodu, Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota Road, Oba Sekumade Road, Ipakodo, Ikorodu, Itamaga to Ewu Elepe town, Construction of 22 Bus Shelters and Regeneration of GRA, Ikeja.  