Nigeria has started ‘reaping’ the rewards of its decision to pull out of international competitions for two years. Yesterday, the world basketball ruling body, FIBA, named Mali as a replacement for the country’s women’s national team, D’Tigress, in the list of teams billed to participate in the Australia 2022 World Cup. D’Tigress had qualified as the only African team to play in the World Cup slated for Sydney, Australia later in the year. But following Nigeria’s decision to withdraw from all international competitions, FIBA said in a statement that it has picked Mali, as the next ranked team from Group B of the qualifying tournament earlier held in Belgrade, Serbia. Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, last month, announced that President Muhammadu Buhari had agreed to withdraw Nigeria from competing in any international basketball competition for the next two years. He added that the ban is part of efforts by the government to revamp the sport from the grassroots. The withdrawal is seen by stakeholders as a ploy to address the lingering leadership crisis in the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). In the statement, FIBA said the NBBF “is unable to confirm its participation in the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2022.” The world body added that it, “will announce whether there will be any other decisions related to the NBBF’s participation in other FIBA competitions and any potential disciplinary measures in due course.” The statement reads: “FIBA was informed about the decision of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to withdraw the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) from all international basketball competitions and activities for a period of two years. “In subsequent communications with the NBBF, and despite FIBA’s request, it has become clear that against the circumstances created by the government’s decision, the NBBF is unable to confirm its participation in the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2022. “Given the multiple strict deadlines that cannot be postponed in order to ensure the successful staging of a major international event (visa procedures, schedules, ticket sales, accommodations, friendly games, preliminary rosters, flight tickets, accreditations, etc.) and to protect the integrity of the competition, the FIBA Executive Committee has decided as follows: “Nigeria’s withdrawal from the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2022 is confirmed. “Mali, as the next ranked team from Group B of the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2022 Qualifying Tournament in Belgrade, is invited to participate in the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup 2022.” “FIBA will announce whether there will be any other decisions related to the NBBF’s participation in other FIBA competitions and any potential disciplinary measures in due course.” The latest decision has dealt a big blow to the aspirations of some Nigerian basketball stars, especially those who recently switched allegiance to play for their motherland. These include the Ogwumike sisters, Nneka, Chiney and Erica, who were looking forward to debuting for Nigeria at the World Cup after switching allegiance from the United States. It also means that the men’s national team, D’Tigers, will also be replaced in the list of teams to feature in November’s FIBA World Cup qualifying competition.