President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the presidential flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 elections. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity), Garba Shehu, the President said: “Having emerged victorious, he has our full and unwavering support. “Now, our party must unite behind our candidate to achieve victory at the 2023 elections so that our government will continue to secure our communities, grow our economy and continue the fight against corruption. “During the primaries, there were factions and disagreements among the contestants and now that the process has ended, we must build a united front in our party. “In this way, the APC will remain the party that can best deliver on the priorities of the Nigerian people. Now it is time to put the process behind us. “Because what we can all agree is that the APC remains the party that can best deliver on the priorities of the Nigerian people. But the way to demonstrate that we can get on with this job is to unite. “The movement we created in 2013 is beyond individuals. Together, we made history by becoming the first party in our country’s history to unseat a party in power and propel our candidate into the Presidency through a peaceful democratic transfer of power. “We strongly believe that Tinubu will safeguard and improve on this democratic achievement and legacy. He is the right candidate for Nigeria’s aspiration because he is the APC’s candidate and under the continued stewardship of our party. Nigeria can achieve greatness and fulfil its destiny in Africa and the World. “The high point of this extraordinary convention of our party was the energy of the Presidential aspirants and it is from amongst them that we have chosen the most popular leader. I recognise and commend the enthusiasm and self-confidence among our party men and women. also thank the delegates for making the right decision leading to the emergence of our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” he said. 