The Parent-Teacher Association of Nigeria (PTA), Ondo State chapter, yesterday, recognised The Guardian Newspaper with an award for its outstanding contributions to the development of education in Nigeria. Presenting the award to our correspondent at the International Event and Culture Centre (Dome), the Vice President, PTA Nigeria, Chief Abimbola Omoloja, said the award was given for being the voice of the common man and its performance in the development of education. Also, the wife of the Ondo State governor, Mrs Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, was recognised among 20 others for their immense contributions to the sector. According to Omoloja, The Guardian remains one of the national dailies reporting issues with facts and accuracy. He added that it has continued to make a quality impact beyond the shores of Nigeria. Omoloja, who is also the state PTA Chairman, said the award was based on five categories, including girl-child development, educational planning and administration, education philanthropy, amazon of hope and activities of the traditional institutions. The PTA chairman, who appreciated the governor for providing enabling environment for education to thrive in the state, solicited for office accommodation for the association. “It should be noted that education is the bedrock of development as it lead to prosperity and diminishes social vices,” he said. Wife of the governor, Anyanwu-Akeredolu, who received an award for child-girl role model development, advocated for the inclusion of more women in governance for better development and advancement of the country. The governor’s wife who said she had trained about 2,000 girls through her pet project, BEMORE Initiative Empowerment, said now is the time for women should be given chance in politics. The First Lady noted that “the present situation of the country and the way we treat our women and girls has reflected in our level of development and advancement. “So, we should all rise up collectively as African women to strategically build a new generation of women through our girls by raising them differently. If we want to change the narrative of this country, we need women, especially starting with our young girls, because they are the future of the country.”