The Spiritual Director, Catholic Adoration Ministry Chaplaincy, Enugu, Rev Fr. Ejike Camillus Mbaka, yesterday, blessed and tendered an apology to the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi and his supporters over his utterances against his person. In a statement signed by him and made available, Mbaka said, “I am a servant of God and my intention is not to malign Peter Obi’s image, but to pray for him.” “May God’s will be done in his life. I pray to God whom I serve to give our beloved people good and excellent leaders who will take care of them and lead them to the Promised Land. “Anyone who God wishes to make our Leader is my choice. In this vein, I give my blessings to the supporters of His Excellency Peter Obi. “In any way, they feel offended by my utterances or however I was misunderstood by them, I ask for their understanding and forgiveness. As a servant of the Most High God, I pray that it shall be well with my people. I am an ardent supporter of Good Governance, Justice, Equity, Love and Godliness,” he said. Recall that before his apology, yesterday, the Catholic Diocese of Enugu had dissociated itself from Mbaka’s utterances and described his actions as unbecoming and divisive. The Diocese under the leadership of Most Rev. Callistus V. C. Onaga, in a statement, signed by the Chancellor/Secretary, Very Rev. Fr. Wilfred Chidi Agubuchie; Vicar General, Very Rev. Fr. Geoffrey Aguigwo and Auxiliary Bishop of Enugu, Most Rev. Ernest Anezichukwu Obodo, explained that Mbaka’s utterances are contrary to canon 220 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law, which prohibits anyone from illegitimately harming the good name of a person. According to the statement, it is also a violation of the provisions of Canon 287 and 2, which forbids priests from engaging in partisan politics. The Diocese said Mbaka’s views on the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, of being ‘a stingy man’ and ‘a joker’ was entirely personal and do not represent the position of the Catholic Diocese of Enugu. While calling on Mbaka to refrain from making further provocative prophecies or utterances capable of heating up the polity, the Diocese assured God’s people and the public that the Catholic Diocese of Enugu is taking the due canonical process. The statement reads in part: “The Catholic Diocese of Enugu has been drawn to the inflammatory political utterances by Rev. Fr. Camillus Ejike Mbaka, the Director of Catholic Adoration Ministry Chaplaincy, Enugu, on Wednesday, June 15, 2022 during his Wednesday Adoration programme. “Fr. Mbaka during his preaching attacked the good reputation of Mr. Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, describing him as ‘a stingy man’ and as ‘a joker,’ contrary to canon 220 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law, which prohibits anyone from illegitimately harming the good name of a person. “He also made fun of the Labour Party and vowed that Mr. Obi could not be the president of Nigeria. This is a clear violation of the provisions of canon 287 & 2, which forbids priests from engaging in partisan politics. “The Catholic Diocese of Enugu hereby condemns and dissociates herself from such unbecoming and divisive utterances from Fr. Mbaka. We notify the general public that Fr. Mbaka’s views on the matter are entirely personal to him and do not represent the position of the Catholic Diocese of Enugu. “In an effort to keep him united to the body of Christ, we enjoin him to refrain from making further provocative prophecies or utterances capable of heating up the polity. We assure the people of God and the general public that the Catholic Diocese of Enugu is taking the due canonical process,” the statement added.” The Diocese appealed to Nigerians to continue to pray for peaceful elections as well as discharge their civic responsibilities by getting their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), which will enable them to vote and elect the right candidates.