Although Enyimba of Aba is struggling in this season’s Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), the Peoples Elephant are still considered the country’s best club by the Confederation of African Football (CAF). In its latest ranking published yesterday, Enyimba is rated as Africa’s 23rd best team, with the closest Nigerian side, Enugu Rangers, in the 44th position, followed by Lobi Stars as number 49. The ranking is dominated by clubs from North Africa following their stupendous performances in the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup. The current ranking takes into retrospect the last five years with the index based on each side’s performance in the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederations Cup. Egyptian giants Al Ahly, who lost the CAF Champions League final to Wydad Casablanca a fortnight ago, sit top of the list with the Moroccan giants behind them. CAF Confederation Cup winner, RS Berkane, makes the top five alongside Tunisian outfit, Esperance. Mamelodi Sundowns sit sixth with TP Mazembe, Zamalek, Pyramids and Star of the Sahel completing the top 10. Meanwhile, the 2022/2023 CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup competitions will begin on August 12, the CAF has announced. The group stages for both competitions will start in September and end before November 18 for clubs to free players, who will represent their countries at the Qatar 2022 World Cup. The knockouts will not start until February 2023 after the African Nations Championships (CHAN) tournament is to be held in Algeria. NPFL leaders, Rivers United and Plateau United are Nigeria’s leading candidates for the CAF Champions League. From the onset of the 2021/22 season, the teams have been at the forefront of the race for the title, but now Rivers United, with 70 points, have opened a 10-point gap at the top of the log. Enugu Rangers and Enyimba are battling for the lone Confederation Cup ticket available for the third-placed team in the NPFL. Both have 51 points, but the Rangers are third on the log on superior goals difference. Remo Stars (50 points), Kwara United (49) and Sunshine Stars (48) still have a mathematical chance of overtaking Rangers and Enyimba in the race for the Confederation Cup. The NPFL has five matches remaining until the end of the season. 