Mojec Meter Asset Management Company (M3AC) has continued its meter penetration push to reduce Nigeria’s metering gap by partnering with the Eko Electric Distribution Company (EKEDC) to get more Nigerians covered under its mobile MAP initiative. This is as the company also cautioned customers against meter tampering and energy theft, which would negatively affect the energy sector value chain. MOJEC International Chairman, Mrs. Mojisola Abdul, said to have an efficient energy sector value chain that would ultimately lead to more power supply, the right energy usage had to be captured and paid for by customers. She said customers too had a responsibility to ensure that they do not bypass their meters nor induce the meter installers to do it for them. Mrs. Abdul said the core advantage of prepaid meters is that customers could manage their energy usage and be economical with it. This, she asserted, would lead to the end of estimated billings if more customers are metered, in alignment with the metering drive of the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) that approved the Mobile Meter Access Provider (MAP) scheme. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, EKEDC, Dr. Tinuade Sanda, at the flag-off, said the activation is to reiterate to their customers that they hear them and understand that they want to measure the energy they consume. She said that as a DisCo, they also want to be able to measure the energy they sell to the customers which was why it became imperative for them to activate the Mobile MAP in their various business units. Dr. Sanda encouraged the customers to use the opportunity to get metered under the Mobile MAP so that they can control their energy usage, similar to the way they control their mobile communication data usage. Head, Mobile MAP, MOJEC, Micheal Onuoha, said under the partnership, 10,000 meters will be given monthly to the various customers under the scheme till the end of the Mobile MAP to dispel the rumour that meters are hard to get. He said this would make more Nigerians able to control their energy usage.