SOKAPU warns political parties against all-Muslim ticket Inhabitants of Adara community in the southern part of Kaduna State have said that about 32 persons lost their lives in an alleged helicopter-aided attack by terrorists, who razed houses, including Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) in the area. Adara leaders said more bodies were discovered in bushes around the villages attacked by terrorists in helicopters. The National President of Adara Development Association (ADA), Awemi Maisamari, stated, yesterday: “The pogrom against Adara nation rages on. In the latest tragedy, Ungwan Gamu, Dogon Noma, Ungwan Sarki and Maikori villages near Maro in Kajuru Local Council were attacked on Sunday, June 5, 2022. “The death toll this morning (Wednesday) is 32, as villagers comb surrounding bushes for more bodies. Seven were found this morning decomposing.” According to him, the attack started around noon and lasted until around 06:00 p.m. unchallenged by the state. It was carried out by Fulani terrorists on 150 motorcycles carrying three armed persons each. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Mohammed Jalige, did not respond to telephone calls from The Guardian for comments on the Adara attack. MEANWHILE, Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has told all political parties in Kaduna and the state government not to encourage a Muslim-Muslim governorship ticket in the 2023 general election. According to the group, the promotion of such tickets by Governor Nasir el-Rufai has divided the people and hindered socio-economic development, noting that Southern Kaduna people will resist any political arrangement devoid of political balance in 2023. In a statement, yesterday, SOKAPU Political Committee congratulated governorship candidates of the various political parties. “While we are glad that the events leading to their emergence as candidates were successfully carried out devoid of any form of violence. We look forward to meeting them soon for fruitful deliberations on how we can build bridges in our dear state for development,” the group stated. Secretary of the committee, Simon Musa, explained: “There has been no better time than now for all parties and both zones to work towards enthroning inclusiveness across the various parts of Kaduna.” “Despite the tension and animosity prevalent along ethnoreligious divides, the Southern Kaduna people are committed to the welfare and security of all citizens of the state. In this regard, the attention of SOKAPU has been drawn to subtle threats mounted on governorship candidates to appoint their running mates without regard to the ethnoreligious divide in the state.” 