Approves electoral offences desk at FCID, VGN in states
The police have arrested 24 suspected political thugs with arms in Nasarawa State. This was as the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, approved the establishment of Electoral Offences Desk at the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), Force Headquarters (FHQ), Abuja, with the Commissioner of Police, FCID, as the desk officer. Disclosing this, yesterday, Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Olumuyiwa Adejobi, noted that in line with the IGP’s mandate, operatives of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) attached to the Keffi Area Command of Nasarawa, acting on credible intelligence, arrested 24 suspected political thugs at Minki Suites, along Keffi-Akwanga Road. According to him, the thugs, suspected to be loyal to a contestant in the Nasarawa West senatorial primary, went into a hotel in a convoy of seven private vehicles. “Items recovered from the arrested suspects include, eight pump action guns, two locally-made revolver guns, 37 rounds of live cartridges, four bullet-proof vests, 27 mobile phones, two pairs of vigilante uniforms, five cutlasses and 10 assorted knives. “Preliminary investigations reveal that the suspects, who are thugs for hire, carry out their heinous acts under the guise of being members of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN),” Adejobi said. The IGP has equally approved the establishment of VGN at state commands across the nation with the Assistant Commissioners of Police (ASPs) in charge of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) as desk officers. He added: “The mandate of the Electoral Offences Desk Officers includes the collation and investigation of all electoral offences/complaints from members of the public or any quarter, to determine culpability in line with the amended Electoral Act 2022, and proffering charges before courts of competent jurisdiction for necessary legal action. The IGP tasked the desk to commence activities immediately with some isolated cases recorded during the pre-election activities such as screening, conventions and primaries. “The IGP has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the Electoral Offences Desk at the FCID and the immediate arrest of the concerned aspirant for necessary action.” Usman reportedly reiterated the commitment of the force to stamp out threats to peaceful and credible elections at all levels, vowing to deal decisively with anyone engaging in political thuggery. 