Multi-talented entertainer, Bright Chimezie Uzoma, known by the stage name Adviser,  has urged youths to grab opportunities in the creative industry. He also stressed the need for govt and leaders to stimulate youths towards joining the creative industry, maintaining that opportunities are limitless both in the industry and sports. He called for programmes that would not only uncover talents in youths but help them to transform their passion into profitable acts. Uzoma, a comedian, actor, and event planner host of  comedy series tagged: “The Calling of Adviser” in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, said:  “Talent detection programmes can stimulate the transition of passion into profit.” He recalled that it was after he surmounted his challenges that he created “The Calling of Adviser”  an annual comedy event spiced with music and designed for family and friends. “The maiden edition of the event held in 2013 in Port Harcourt and subsequent editions were held in Abia and Cross River states respectively. An indigene of Imo State and a biotechnology graduate of Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), Adviser has featured as a guest artiste in comedy and non-comedy shows across Nigeria and has been recognised with awards. A statement made available to newsmen yesterday by his Media  Assistant, Otuonye Childera, noted that in 2010, Adviser was declared winner of IMO Got Talent and also won Big E comedy open mic 2012, even as he also emerged winner, Swag TV International fast-rising comedian of the year 2013,  Best Comedy Show of the Year 2016, Bae Award Best Dressed Comedian 2017,  Best Gospel Comedian 2017, and G-influence fast-rising comedian of the Year 2015, among others. The statement adds that Adviser’s diligence saw him emerge a finalist in Stand Up Nigeria 2011/2012 and Ali Baba Spontaneity Finalist 2015 and he had his first  West African tour in 2019 in Ghana, Togo and the Republic of Benin. “Some of the events he has featured in include AY LiVE  Port Harcourt Day of a Thousand Laugh, Chronicles Of Ushbebe PH, UYO and Lagos, Crack Ya Ribs, Akpororo Vs Akpororo Lagos and Abuja, Owerri must Laugh, AliBaba 1st January Show, FunnyBone Untamed, Acapella My Mic and I, amongst others. “Due to his love for people and goodwill to his generation, he has an annual charity/ praise concert titled “STREET JAMZ” where he creates an atmosphere on the street for people to enjoy themselves and keep believing in God. He also shares food items, clothes and school materials  (bags, books, pen and pencils to the kids. “Comedian Adviser is very creative, funny, caring, accommodating and fearless. He is one of the most spontaneous comedians in Nigeria today”. Childera noted in the statement.