MTN pledges continued support for NDLEA to further deliver Nigeria is winning the war against drug abuse, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has declared. In his message on the occasion of the 2022 United Nations International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug Trafficking themed “Addressing Drug Challenges in Health and Humanitarian Crises,” he stated that the days of dependency on hard substances were numbered. The Vice President’s optimism is premised on the renewed vigour of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the commitment of the Federal Government and the support of development partners. He said: “We are winning this war. The days of the scourge of drug abuse and dependency are clearly numbered, but it will involve even greater investment in focus and determination for the long haul. “NDLEA, especially in the last two years, under the leadership of General Buba Marwa, has been fiercer and sharper in its determination to stamp out drug abuse and trafficking in the country. His vision and strong resolve have given the war against drug trafficking and abuse new energy, purpose and clearer direction. “I am glad to hear that in 2021, about 8,000 drug users were counselled and rehabilitated by the NDLEA, and in the first half of this year alone, over 11,000 drug users have been counselled and treated. We must maintain a multi-dimensional and holistic approach to tackling drug abuse.” Speaking on the approach that ensures the realisation of the objective, Osinbajo submitted:  “The new normal offers us opportunities for increased innovation in tackling this menace, through technology-based monitoring systems for promptly detecting and addressing drug market changes, and also accelerating mobile outreach programmes, remote consultation and treatment for those who suffer from drug use disorders and are without the appropriate care.” In his remarks, former Minister of Health and Chairman of MTN Foundation, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, promised the telecommunication firm’s continued support for NDLEA in its efforts to rid Nigeria of illicit drugs.