Like many democracies, Nigeria recently marked this year’s Democracy Day on June 12, a day that symbolises freedom from the oppressive rule of the military. An allusion of such symbolism has equally been made to the telecoms sector, which has continued to drive the country’s socioeconomic development and whose independence, stakeholders believe, should be strengthened.  While the request is not in itself bad or over bearing, the intent behind such request appeared to be what is unsettling stakeholders, going by the antecedents of the ministry with some of the agencies and parastatals under the ministry.
   
According to stakeholders, this invariably means that any activity of the NCC in that regard must be subjected to the ministry’s scrutiny before going public, which is contrary to regulatory powers of the commission as an independent regulator as contained in the NCA Act 2003.
   
Besides, this move is seen in the industry as an attempt by the leadership of the ministry to, once again, interfere with the regulatory activities of NCC rather than focusing on the policy direction, which, inter alia, is the main role of the ministry.
   
The recent directive, according to information gathered by The Guardian, was in relation to a particular telecoms programme organised by NCC, where the ministry, especially the leadership, was not aware. Defining minister’s role in NCA 2003
A dissection of the NCA 2003 with respect to the role of the minister showed that Section 23 of the Act specifically outlines the role of the minister in the telecoms sector to include (a) the formulation, determination and monitoring, of the general policy for the communications sector in Nigeria with a view to ensuring, amongst others, the utilisation of the sector as a platform for the economic and social development of Nigeria; (b) the negotiation and execution of international communications treaties and agreements, on behalf of Nigeria, between sovereign countries and international organisations and bodies; and (c) the representation of Nigeria, in conjunction with the Commission, at proceedings of international organisations and for matters relating to communications.  Previous instances of regulatory overlap
According to The Guardian findings, this is not the first time the telecoms industry is faced with this kind of regulatory capture. There have always been precedents where the ministry has tried to encroach into the regulatory activities of the country’s telecoms regulator.
  
Mid 2009, the NCC, in furtherance of its regulatory activities, sold three 2.3GHz licenses for WiMAX operations to three operators, namely: Mobitel, Spectranet and Multilinks. Before the joy of celebrations could abate following the success of such licensing, the exercise was cancelled by the Minister of Information and Communications, Prof. Dora Akunyili, who claimed not to be properly briefed or carried along. There was something close to a dirge across the industry because such an audacious external intervention had never been witnessed in an industry, acclaimed all over the world, as exemplary.
   
The telecoms industry had been built on peoples’ credibility, knowledge, sweat and investment, and the NCC wasn’t going to let that go down easily. Ernest Ndukwe, who was the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), wrote to the minister immediately, pointing her attention to the section of the NCA Act 2003, which confined her involvement in the industry to only policy matters. The matter didn’t settle well with the late Prof Akunyili.  Imperatives of regulatory autonomy for telecoms industry stability, growth
Findings showed that from 8.50 per cent telecommunications contribution to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2015, the figure rose to 14.43 per cent as at H1, 2022. The telecoms contribution strengthened ICT contribution to GDP, which currently stood at 17.92 per cent, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics.
   
Consequently, of the about 350 million connected lines, it must be stated that Nigeria currently has 201 million active telephone subscribers. The sector can boast of over $80 billion investments. After successful auction of the 3.5GHz spectrum for the deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) by the NCC, telecom operators have been mandated to start deployment of 5G technology by August. Hopefully, a new revolution is expected to be born in the sector.
   
Indeed, sustaining these growths requires stability and regulatory autonomy, according to a telecoms expert, Kehinde Aluko.
    
Aluko said the minister by now, with over three years in the office, should know that autonomy of the regulator, the NCC, is critical if more investments must come to the industry. “Without industry stability and specialization as it were, I believe it will be difficult to bridge the 114 access gaps in the country, where some 25 million Nigerians are still without basic telephony services,” Aluko stressed.
    
Few months back, MTN Chairman, Ndukwe, noted at a public function, that the political and financial independence of the regulatory institution would be critical in achieving further industry successes and contributing significantly to the economy.
   
Ndukwe recalled that the high investment levels that had been attained in the sector was neither because Nigeria suddenly became one of the most desired investment destinations for ICT in Africa nor due to its large population.
    
He said Nigeria has always had a large population before 2000, “but the massive inflow of investment was largely because of the stable policy and regulatory regime that the industry enjoyed since 2000. This must, therefore, be maintained.” 