Makinde says elevation reward for diligence, patriotism The people of Iseyin in Iseyin Local Council of Oyo State have been jubilating over the elevation of their son, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). This is coming on the heels of the resignation of former CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad. The Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Abdul-Ganiy Salawudeen Adekunle, Oloogunebi Ajinese I, while speaking with reporters at Ibadan, congratulated the new CJN, attributing the elevation to years of toil, dedication and brilliant legal sojourn. The monarch said the achievement would go into the history of the ancient town and that one of its sons has made a remarkable accomplishment in the judiciary system during his reign as the Aseyin of Iseyin. ALSO, the Iseyin Development Union (IDU), in a statement signed by its National President, Alhaji Bayo Raji, said the union was proud and happy about Ariwoola’s achievement as it would serve as a veritable point of reference to guide future leaders. MEANWHILE, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, yesterday, congratulated Ariwoola on his elevation and swearing-in as the acting CJN. Makinde described the Iseyin-born Ariwoola’s elevation as a deserving development and reward for diligence, patriotism and service to the nation. A statement by Special Assistant (Print Media) to the Governor, Moses Alao, quoted Makinde as saying that he has no doubt that the jurist would restore the glory of the Supreme Court and the judiciary. “I congratulate a noble son of Oyo State, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, on his elevation and swearing-in as Chief Justice of Nigeria, in an acting capacity. “This elevation comes as a deserving development, a well-deserved promotion that comes after decades of hard work, diligence, patriotism and forthrightness in the judiciary. “I have no doubt that the new Acting CJN will turn around the fortunes of the judiciary and the apex court for good by bringing his wealth of experience to bear in restoring the glory of the judiciary. “On behalf of the good people and government of Oyo State, I celebrate Justice Ariwoola and pray to God to grant him the needed enablement to succeed in the new office,” the statement stated.