 “E-NABLE”, a new project funded by the European Union, will support key Libyan economic institutions in introducing digital economic governance tools and improving digital services for businesses. The three-year project (2022 – 2025) aims at promoting an investment-friendly and conducive business environment, strengthening the Libyan private sector and thus contributing to economic growth in Libya.  “The launch of the E-NABLE project is a necessity to support Libyan institutions to keep pace with the digital transformation happening in the world. Digitization is the future because it supports the creation of a dynamic economy and contributes to supporting a new competitive private sector with good governance.” said Mr. Mohamed Al–Huwaij, Minister of Economy and Trade in Libya.  “Economic governance going digital is key for Libya’s private sector to develop and the economy to grow. E-governance makes government services quicker and more efficient, so businesses and entrepreneurs can focus on their core tasks: business and innovation.” said EU Ambassador Jose Sabadell at the launch of E-NABLE in Tripoli today. “Digitalisation and adapting governance systems to our digitalised world are key priorities for the European Union. We heavily invest in this area in Europe, and cooperate with partners around the world to bring the digital transformation forward – also in Libya.”  The €5M E-NABLE project will be implemented by Expertise France (https://bit.ly/3NAeYtl) and involve key Libyan economic institutions including, the Ministry of Economy and Trade, Ministry of planning, Ministry of Finance, Central Bank of  Libya and the Chambers of Commerce. It will also work with Libyan tech and telecommunication partners such as the General Information Authority, the Libyan Post Telecommunications & Information Technology Company (LIPTIC (https://LPTIC.ly/)) and several public and private tech companies. The newly launched project will focus on three main aspects:       “Since 2016, Expertise France has worked alongside the Libyan authorities to support the private sector and entrepreneurship. We are delighted to continue this collaboration by launching this new project that puts e-governance and digitalization in the spotlight and addresses new challenges for Libya.” said Ms. Isabelle Vallot, Head of Financial and Economic Governance Department at Expertise France in Libya. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Expertise France. Contact: 
Sarah Belamin,
Communication Officer – Expertise France Economical program in Libya
E-mail: sarah.belamin@expertisefrance.fr
+218946660453 About the European Union:
The European Union is made up of 27 Member States, which have decided to gradually pool their know-how, their resources, and their destiny. Together, over a period of over 50 years of enlargement, they have built an area of stability, democracy, and sustainable development, while maintaining their cultural diversity, tolerance and individual freedoms. The European Union is determined to share its achievements and values with countries and peoples beyond its borders. About Expertise France:
Expertise France is the French public agency for international technical assistance. It aims at contributing to sustainable development based on solidarity and inclusiveness, mainly through enhancing the quality of public policies within the partner countries. Expertise France is implementing a range of EU-funded projects in the economic sector in Libya by utilizing highly qualified national and international experts. These projects include SLEIDSE (https://bit.ly/3MzmWSa), EU4PSL (www.EU4PSL.org), PAMRI, and Raqam-e (Raqam-e.ly) projects which have successfully contributed to raising awareness about entrepreneurship and coding, supported the private sector, engaged and empowered CSOs and women entrepreneurs, and facilitated access to finance www.ExpertiseFrance.fr