God alone raises men, but He does it through other men. The help that you are looking for is in the hand of someone else. Your ability to identify, embrace, value, appreciate, locate and celebrate the people that God has assigned to help you is critical to your destiny fulfilment. Some people struggle through life not because they lack skills or talent but because they are far from their destiny helpers. There is no man that is self-made. The journey to destiny fulfilment will put a very high demand on the input of people that are critical to our destination. Many people who are not doing well are a result of certain relationships that are not in place in their lives. Likewise, everyone doing well can be traced to certain right relationships in their lives. There are seven types of destiny helpers/relationships that are very crucial to destiny fulfilment. They all have special complementary roles to play in our lives. You need to identify these categories of destiny helpers and position yourself strategically to get the best out of them. #1 Destiny Connectors: These are the people that have the connections and contacts that are critical to your destiny fulfilment. They are your ultimate connectors. They can connect you in a way that your degree and certificate would not be able to in your life-time. These are special relationships that can open doors in a moment which your degrees and skills won’t open in a lifetime. I have observed that there is a strong connection between the quality of your relationships and the opportunities that you will be exposed to in life. #2 Destiny Mentors: These are the people that have the experience and exposure that you need to fulfil your destiny. The truth of life is that if you want to go further, get a father. Isaac Newton once said, “If I have seen farther than others, it is because I was standing on the shoulders of giants.” Behind every successful person, there was a mentor who helped them along the way. Some of the most influential people in history were encouraged to succeed by some of the most well-known people of their time. Socrates mentored Plato, Plato mentored Aristotle, and Aristotle mentored Alexander the great. Thomas Edison mentored Henry Ford. Steve Jobs was mentored by William Hewlett, one of the Co-founders of the HP company. Oprah Winfrey was mentored by celebrated author and poet, the late Maya Angelou. Former Apple Inc. CEO, the late Steve Jobs, served as a mentor to Facebook’s CEO, Mark Zuckerberg. #3 Destiny Sponsors: These are the people that God has ordained to fund your dreams. The vision that God has committed to your hand cannot be funded by your salary. The money that you need to sustain the project that God has committed to your hand is not in heaven, it is in someone else’s account! #4 Destiny Recommendators: These are people that can recommend you in places where your own voice cannot be heard. You must surround yourself with people who would mention your name in a room full of opportunities. Knowing people that can recommend you for the right places will always give you a significant edge in life. #5 Destiny Intercessors: Your prayer alone is never sufficient for the fulfilment of God’s plan and purpose for your life. Your dreams need to be powered by other people’s prayers. In the Bible, the devil wanted to make a mess of Peter’s ministry, but Jesus told him that He had already prayed for him. We all need a ‘prayer bank’ that can fuel and power us towards the fulfilment of God’s purpose for our lives. #6 Destiny Prophets/Pastors: There is a prophet behind every prosperity. You must be under someone’s anointing for you to function maximally. Every man has a prophet that is significant to his/her destination. Beware of fake prophets, but you must also position yourself to recognize and maximize the prophet that God has placed in your life. #7 Destiny Partners: The choice of the person you will spend the rest of your life with is actually a destiny decision. I repeat, who you marry is actually a destiny decision! Your partner’s mindset and philosophy about life matters a lot. Getting married changes your life in profound ways. Planning your future around a partner with no future ambition can frustrate your destiny. It is either you marry an asset or a liability. There is a story of a young Scottish boy who made history in his generation by connecting with his destiny helper very early in life. A distinguished member of the British Parliament travelled to Scotland to give a speech in 1890. There, his carriage was hopelessly mired in the thick mud of a rural road. Many poor passers-by were happy that the rich man was stuck in the mud and waited to see how he would ever get out without soiling his attire. A young poor Scottish farm boy saw the helpless rich man and decided to help him out. While many poor farmers looked disdainfully at this boy’s kind gesture, they never realised that the poor lad was forming a bond that would last him a lifetime. He helped the man to move his carriage out of the mud with large draft horses and was ready to resume his journey. The lawmaker insisted on paying the young man, but the lad refused. “Are you sure I can’t pay you for your time and effort?” the gentleman asked. “Thank you sir,” said the young lad. “It is a privilege to help such an important person as you.” “What do you want to become in life?” asked the lawmaker. “I want to become a doctor, but I doubt that will happen since my family does not have the money for such education,” replied the young lad. The young politician promised to help the young man become a doctor, and he held onto his promise. This kind gesture started a relationship which the boy nurtured, despite the huge aristocratic gap between the parliamentarian and him. Several letters were exchanged between these two ‘friends’ over the course of several years, and guess what? The rich man kept his words by sponsoring the young Scottish boy to achieve his dream of becoming a medical doctor. The story did not end here as something unusual happened that later shocked the world. Fifty years later, a man called Winston Churchill was the prime minister of Britain during Hitler’s insurgence and he was seriously down and close to death due to pneumonia. During this period, pneumonia was like the present day HIV infection, without any cure in view. The whole of Britain was threatened by the health of their leader. Churchill miraculously recovered because his physician gave him an injection of a new wonder drug called penicillin, which had recently been discovered by a brilliant medical doctor, Alexander Fleming. Alexander Fleming was the young boy that had pulled the stalled carriage from the mud. The man who promised to return the favour by sending him to a medical school was Winston Churchill’s father, Sir Randolph Churchill. By saving the life of Churchill, he might have saved the whole of England and probably the whole world from Adolph Hitler’s reign of terror. What a monumental blessing that would have eluded the world if Randolph Churchill was unable to see a medical doctor in the young farm boy! Imagine the great opportunity to fulfil a life-long dream that would have been lost if the young Alexander Fleming never established a relationship with the noble Randolph Churchill. Everything you’ve ever wanted in life is a relationship away. It is not enough to have talent and skills; you must understand the power of building valuable relationships. Jim Rohn said, “You must constantly ask yourself these questions: Who am I around? What are they doing to me? What have they got me reading? What have they got me saying? Where do they have me going? What do they have me thinking? And most important, what do they have me becoming? Then ask yourself the big question – Is this ok?” Surround yourself with people who have a revelation of where God is taking you and who are equally addicted to your success. The journey to destiny fulfilment will require passion, self-discovery, gifts, talents and hard work but will put the highest demand on your ability to associate with the right people. It is not what you have in your life, but who you have in your life, that counts. The core secret of great people is that they work hard at building great relationships. Money can be spent quickly, but relationships are inexhaustible. 