Chairman, North Central States Governors’ Forum (NCSGF), Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State, has congratulated former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, on his emergence as the All Progressives Congress (APCs) presidential candidate. The governor, in a congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Berje, said the choice of Tinubu among other qualified candidates was an expression of confidence in the APC leader by the delegates. According to him, the victory represents confidence in Tinubu’s ability and capacity to rework the country, re-establish the waning confidence of the people and propel the turnaround of the nation’s dwindling economy in the shortest possible time. “We wholeheartedly congratulate and rejoice with him. It is an affirmation of his wide acceptance and a clear demonstration that the APC national leader is credible, capable and has the ability to spearhead a march towards the country’s rebirth,” the governor said. Describing the process of the APC presidential primaries as credible, Bello reaffirmed that the emergence of a Southern candidate as the party’s candidate is in the best interest of justice, fairness, unity and political stability. He commended the APC National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, and all members of the National Working Committee (NWC) for ensuring a hitch-free presidential primary. ALSO, the Amaechi Presidential Media Committee congratulated Tinubu on his emergence as the party’s presidential flagbearer. In a statement by the Chairman, Kingsley Wali, in Lokoja, yesterday, Amaechi called on all APC aspirants to come together and work for the party’s victory in the 2023 presidential election. The statement reads: “We acknowledge that his victory followed a highly charged contest, which, as expected, could only produce one winner. It is, therefore, our hope that following the emergence of Tinubu as our party’s candidate, all aspirants will now close ranks and work hard to ensure our party’s victory at the 2023 general election. “We thank all who, in many remarkable ways, supported the presidential aspiration of Chibuike Rotimi and urge them to see the outcome of the primary as a victory for democracy, which signposts the maturity and evolution of the political culture of Africa’s largest democracy, Nigeria.”