The past few years have seen a huge shift in the business landscape. First was the pandemic, which forced every one of us to recognize and adapt a new way of work. Second is the huge surge in the number of successful startups, especially across Africa. This shows the number of challenges that entrepreneurs are solving across the business landscape, much more, it shows the amount of needs the established businesses weren’t covered before now. However, these unicorns will have some risks to deal with as time goes by – sustainable growth and stability. Early-stage growth is quite normal for any startup that is meeting customer needs. This will get the funding rounds in and set such a startup on its path to becoming a company. Yes, being a startup is one stage in the company lifecycle and it can be quite exciting. The next phase however is the transition from that to a value-generating company. If you look at any large organisation in this age, most are faced with quite steady or even declining growth in the initial ideas they launched with. They have had to innovate continuously to stay relevant. Banking in Nigeria for example used to be a deposit game. Now it has evolved into different types of products. What then do businesses need to ensure sustainable growth and stability? The important factor in this journey is to understand the capacity of your growth opportunities. If you have an addressable market of one million customers and you are currently serving 95% of the same market, it will be unrealistic to set a growth target of 20% without changing anything in your operations. At this point, most organisations must innovate to either increase the addressable market or improve the number of offerings to the same market. This is key. A lot of times, I have been in consultation with clients, and I hear them ask how they can grow a product they have been selling for more than a decade. My first question to them is always if the consumers need more than they consumed last year. In most cases, the people around the table can already tell where I am going with the conversation. The ability to identify when any product or company is at capacity is one that most serial entrepreneurs have that separates them from the rest. This allows them room to think ahead of the curve and innovate the next phase of growth. There are also a few things to keep your eye on while striving for sustainable growth and stability: Everyone in the team has to contribute to creating a great work environment. If you leave it to the leader alone, he may miss many details. If you leave it to the team, they may feel left behind and overworked. Understanding the capacity of your product will go a long way in helping you develop benchmarks for your product and understand when to innovate or improve your offerings. Azeez Amida is a business executive and growthpreneur with 2 decades of experience, Amida helps career professionals, entrepreneurs and corporate brands to improve their processes and grow exponentially. He is currently the CEO of Pan African Towers. Connect with him on social media, @azeezamida 