Sir: Rising from the influx trailing the recent turnout of Nigerians willing to perform their civic duties in 2023 off-cycle elections, vis-a-vis the odd against them regarding time – especially the “first-time voters” – it is unavoidably pertinent that the electoral umpire considers the extension of the deadline for continuous voter registration earlier slated for June 30, 2022, and online pre-registration for May 30, 2022, to enable more enthusiastic eligible voters to be accommodated democratically. In addition, it will also allow those who want to move/transfer their PVC, correct names, and date of birth, to do so. In what many people see as having played to the gallery of political parties cum politicians regarding INEC’s one-week extension of party primaries, the more widely acceptable option would have been an extension of the continuous voter registration cum online pre-registration deadline to give room for more Nigerians to exercise their franchise. Why did INEC suddenly rescind her earlier position not to yield to the political parties’ pressure on party primary extension even when there was no convincing basis for doing such? A more worrying part is that many people are casting aspersions on INEC’s image as not truly “independent” especially from the leading opposition party who were in the week of their presidential primary while the announcement was made – a scenario many views as changing the goal post while the match had already started. While we admit INEC early kickoff notice for citizens to go out for continuous voter registration, we must also take cognizance of the teeming new potential voters, most of which are moved by the recent development of events in the country as well as CSOs voter education campaigns across the board. Alarmingly, this set of voters is now being driven by new narratives against the old norm; embracing the power of the ballot. Hence, the door must not be shut at them as in them lies our strength as a nation and we must harvest them. This call is necessary because Nigerians are aware that the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) ends by June 30, 2022, while online pre-registration ended by May 30, 2022 – a situation that has thrown more panic in the process as centres/platforms are seen being populated and experiencing high-hive of traffic activities. “Voters are critical stakeholders in the electoral process and should be treated as such.” Hence, treating all eligible Nigerian voters fairly would advance the people’s right to vote and to participate in their own government.” More so, extending the deadline for voter registration would be entirely in consonance with constitutional and international standards and the Electoral Act 2022 as well. Any such extension would also not impact negatively the INEC’s election calendar and activities.
Kenneth Eze, executive director, Speak Out Africa Initiative.
Kabibeeb Adewale, team lead, YVoteNaija.
Daisi Omokungbe, executive director, PROMAD Foundation.
Eme Lekuwa, team lead, Civily.
Ebenizar Wikina, founder, Policy Shapers.
Ephraim Okenwa, executive director, LEAD Africa.
Omowumi Ogunrotimi, executive director, Gender Mobile Initiative.