Nigeria’s software engineering wizard, Oyemonlan Benjamin Oseoje, popularly known as Trillbjm, cannot hide his excitement at the increasing level of blockchain penetration among African countries. Trillbjm is one of Africa’s renowned financial technology giants. His level of expertise and accomplishments in the industry has rightly exposed him as a major stakeholder in the drive to promote alternative payment solutions in the continent. Having worked with several indigenous and international organisations at the outset of his career, Oyemonlan Oseoje co-founded  “BillerPay Africa”, a crypto payment platform, seamless, fast and convenient payment technology that automates money transfers and bill payments with bitcoin, Nigeria Fashionnova, among other enterprises. Trillbjm displays unfathomable wizardry as an innovative tech expert. He is unmatchable in his trade and no one comes close to his creating tailor-made solutions in crypto wallet and exchange. The UNILAG graduate and master’s degree holder in computer science from the University of the People, in United States sees the blockchain technology; a ledger of transactions that have unique characteristics that help address problems in our payment systems, as the future of Africa’s digital economy. “Some African countries are increasingly looking in the direction of blockchain, especially in the banking and finance sector. That’s because the value of the blockchain technology stems from its ability to share data in a fast, secure way among entities. We are already developing native blockchain infrastructure that is tailored to suit the African market,” Trillbjm said. He became Africa’s youngest ‘Chief Technology Officer’ (CTO), serving in the position in several digital organisations, including Patricia, an alternative payment solutions company that facilitates the easy use of cryptocurrencies for everyday transactions, Gloverapp, Hankdevice, Rooomxix, etc. Trillbjm, the second child of five siblings, won the “Personality of the Week Award” at TalentQL. In 2021. In 2021, the entrepreneur was conferred with the Nelson Leadership Award of Excellence and Integrity by ECOWAS, a recognition given to inspiring leaders who are doing extraordinary things in the sub-continent. The regional body also named him Ambassador of West Africa Youth Council, which according to the chairperson of the ECOWAS body, His Excellency, Ambassador Williams, was in recognition of his “laudable antecedents of dedication, hard work and diligence in the area of service to humanity and as an advocate and relentless crusader of promoting entrepreneurship for African youths.” 