• Says Tinubu Is Man For The Job Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, returned to Lagos after taking part in the just-concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) convention held to choose the party’s presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. He implored Lagos residents to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) ready. The governor was received by the party faithful, who thronged the presidential wing of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Ikeja, to welcome him back and celebrate the emergence of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the party’s flag-bearer. Sanwo-Olu, addressing the party supporters led by the Lagos APC chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, said: “Your first prayer point has just been answered, referring to the election of Tinubu as the APC presidential candidate. The next hurdle to cross is to elect Tinubu as Buhari’s successor. “It is the turn of the South to produce the next president of Nigeria. I am happy to tell you that this national mandate has been given to our own Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu by all Nigerians. However, this task will not be accomplished only by our votes in Lagos. We must now take the message to all communities, to galvanise our people across the country. “Our national leader has officially received the flag, but the next hurdle is to get him elected at the general elections. This is where we need to play our part in this project. Anyone that has not registered for Permanent Voters Card (PVCs) now has to do so. Those of us who have collected must go for revalidation so that our votes can count. This is our chance to get Tinubu elected. We must ensure we are fully involved by getting our PVC ready.” Sanwo-Olu said Tinubu’s choice as Buhari’s successor was not out of expediency but a deliberate effort by Nigerians to bring forth a unifying and detribalised figure to create a new path of progress. “ Tinubu’s experience in governance, his dexterity in knowledge, transformational leadership and his ability to have led Lagos in difficult times, which changed the fortunes of the State in the last 20 years and make it a melting pot, we believe a detribalised Nigerian with such pedigree will be going to the presidency to chart a new course for our country,” Sanwo-Olu said. Also at the airport to receive the Governor from Abuja are members of the State’s cabinet, traditional rulers, and cultural troupes. 