In an effort to solve problems of investors who are averse to conventional financial instruments,  a non-interest arm of Sterling Bank Plc, Sterling Alternative Finance has launched an investment platform, Altinvest. The platform is to change the investment world with a key focus on the real sector of the economy and by helping its partners create impact in the economy as they build wealth without compromising their ethics. Briefing newsmen about the platform at the bank recently, Director of Digital Products and Innovations, Sterling Alternative Finance, Mohammed Yunusa, said users on the digital platform invest in the financial market through the real sector and are assured of personal wealth growth. “We do investments differently on Altinvest. We ensure we bring your investment vision to life by providing the backstory of what our users, whom we consider partners, are investing in, as well as providing a certificate of ownership on that particular investment opportunity, which secures investment,” Yunusa said. Speaking on how the bank mitigates against risks for retail investors, Group Head, Corporate and Investments Banking Solutions, Sterling Alternative Finance, Lukman Adekola, explained that due diligence has been carried out to hedge against volatility. He said: “We have conducted our due diligence by identifying the risk associated with investments and we have put in place strategies to mitigate these risks. So, be rest assured that we are making available only secure investments listings for our partners. As an organisation, we firmly believe trust and transparency are critical.” In his remarks, Managing Director, of the bank Abubakar Sulieman, said: “We are extremely excited about our latest product offering, Altinvest.  For us as a brand, we are committed to constantly creating value for our partners and stakeholders and I am optimistic that our new offering, Altinvest, will aid in our drive to expand financial inclusion by ensuring that more people have access to finance and investment solutions. We become our partners’ representatives at the table where wealth is being created.” Chief Information Officer, Sterling Alternative Finance, Olatunji Olabisi, described the app as being equipped with the best technology and assured of its efficiency and top-notch security. He said the app has gone through rigorous testing to ensure safety of users’ investments. “The app also prides itself on having a user-friendly interface which makes investing easier and more accessible for the user. The app also has generous educational resources with details on each of your investment choices. This way, prospective users do not have to know the A-Z on investment before signing up on Altinvest,” Olabisi stated.