After several weeks of planning, the maiden John Obi Mikel’s Back2Base programme got underway in Lagos on Thursday with many players scrambling to be part of the event held at the University of Lagos Sports Centre, Akoka. The programme ends today. Many youths without prior registration, stormed the venue eager to be part of the event, but were disappointed because the organisers had registered qualified players over the past few weeks. However, many of them returned to the stand and watched with delight, while participants displayed their talents across the three sports, football, tennis and basketball. “I’m delighted that the Back2Base project is underway, and this is one of the several ways to discover talents that can be nurtured to become stars tomorrow,” Mikel stated. He continued: “I started playing from the sandy pitch, where I moved into manageable football field and it will be a great opportunity for many of these young talents to discover themselves.” The first match between All Stars against Agbado Ijaiye Meiran ended goalless. According to the organisers, the two matches will produce the best 11 in each department, and will tackle the best 11 from the matches in yesterday’s fixtures for the final match today. Cash rewards of N6 million will be presented for best players in the three sports today. In the other match played on Thursday, Almosho Pipeline took on Agbado Ijaiye Adura and today, Ajegunle FC will square up with Evans Square of Ebute Meta, while Alimosho Akinola will take on Magboro Prayer City (MFM) in the second match. In the grand final today, the best 11 from Day-one and two featured in the final match at the same venue. The same metric was adopted in the Tennis and Basketball events. In all, eight teams were registered across all the three sports, but only tennis has male and female participants. The organisers said subsequent editions would allow participants across all genders. The event will be rounded up today with a Gala night and awards giving ceremony at Radisson Blu, Victoria Island, Lagos tomorrow (Sunday). 