Troops kill four terrorists, rescue kidnapped civilians in Zamfara, Katsina Families of abducted train passengers have appealed to the Federal Government to speed up the process of releasing the remaining 50 hostages, who have spent about 90 days with terrorists, as some of them are contemplating suicide. The relatives and friends of the victims, who spoke at a press conference in Kaduna, yesterday, said some of their loved ones, according to reports they received, were contemplating suicide due to the harrowing experience at the den. While addressing newsmen, Dr. Abdulfatai Jimoh, who spoke on behalf of other families, expressed delight over the recent release of 11 hostages by the bandits. According to him, their joy will know no bound, if the remaining 50 hostages are set free in the shortest possible time. Jimoh also urged the security agencies to hasten the process of releasing the remaining 50 hostages as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari. He lamented: “Since the dark day of March 28, 2022, only 11 people of the abducted citizens have been reunited with their families, leaving behind 50 innocent Nigerians in the hands of the abductors under horrible living conditions.” IN another development, Nigerian troops have neutralised four terrorists in Zamfara and Katsina states, in their bid to return tranquility in the areas. They also rescued six kidnapped civilians in the bandits’ den. Spokesman for Defence Media Operation (DMO), Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, said the onslaught was in continuation of operations against terrorists, kidnappers and other criminal elements across the various theatres. “Troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies recorded significant successes in the last few days. On June 21, 2022, troops of FOB Bakura, Operation Hadarin Daji, responded to distress call of terrorists’ activities at Rafin Dankura in Bakura Local Council of Zamfara and engaged the terrorists in a shoot-out. “During the encounter, the troops rescued the kidnapped civilians and neutralised two bandits. Items recovered include two AK-47 rifles, 36 hand grenades, two mobile phones and N211,915 cash. At Maigora in Faskari Local Council of Katsina, they also neutralised two terrorists,” he said.