Download logo FIFA (www.FIFA.com) is pleased to announce that the accreditation process for media representatives wishing to cover the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup 2022™ is now open via the FIFA Media Hub. The deadline for accreditation applications is 17 July 2022.  Some of the world’s best young players and future superstars of the women’s game will showcase their skills at the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup, which will take place in Costa Rica in two Host Cities – San José and Alajuela – from 10 to 28 August 2022, with 32 matches involving 16 women’s national youth teams from around the world. Media accreditation process The media accreditation process for written press, photographers and non-rights holder media will be managed through the FIFA Media Hub. Media representatives with an approved Media Hub account can access the accreditation form HERE (https://fifa.fans/3NaODAX). Media representatives who do not yet have a Media Hub account can complete the online registration form at https://fifa.fans/3xO3uM9. Approval to access the FIFA Media Hub does not mean that you have been granted accreditation for the competition. Once you have received your Media Hub username and created your password, you can proceed to complete the accreditation form in the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup Costa Rica 2022 section of the Media Hub. All applications are subject to confirmation and will not be on a first-come, first-served basis. Successful applicants will be notified and provided with further information in due course. Media Rights Licensees (MRLs) The media accreditation process for Media Rights Licensees will begin in early July. There is a separate accreditation process for radio and television media rights licensees. For more information, please contact broadcasterservicing@fifa.org. Media accommodation Media representatives planning to attend the FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup Costa Rica 2022™ can find information on media designated hotels HERE (https://fifa.fans/3blvb76). Click HERE (https://fifa.fans/3QFEwXG) for the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup 2022 match schedule. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FIFA. Contact for African media: 
AfricanMedia@fifa.org