As the foremost continental music awards platform, All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) continues to remind entertainers to submit their entries for the 2022 edition, it has announced a partnership with the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), as well as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), in a bid to further uplift the African creative industry. According to the award body, it held a recent strategic stakeholder meeting, in Libreville, Gabon, with the President of Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) Commission, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Gabon, delegates and senior officials  from the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), as well as delegates from Centre International des Civilisations Bantu (CICIBA) who are excited about the AFRIMA initiative, where the possibilities of this partnership were discussed. According to UNESCO’s representative to Gabon and ECCAS, Mr. Eric Voli Bi, Africa’s creative economy needs more support and opportunities for the youth – who make up the larger chunk of the workforce – to thrive. “I must thank AFRIMA for constantly projecting the continent in a positive light to the world, and for giving African youths opportunities to be recognised on a continental and even global scale. UNESCO is always interested in youth education and development initiatives, and AFRIMA is one veritable platform to help stimulate potentials among these youths. I believe, with one voice, we can speak louder. That is the way to go.” The President of the ECCAS Commission, His Excellency Gilberto Da Piedade Vérissimo, also pledged support towards AFRIMA. He assured that ECCAS would partner AFRIMA to provide capacity building for African youths across the central African region as well as develop its music industry. The main ceremony of the All Africa Music awards will be held from Thursday November 3 to Saturday November 6, 2022. It will feature a 4-day fiesta of music, glitz, and glamour, which commences with a welcome soiree, followed by the AFRIMA Music Village, the host city tour, African Music Business Summit, and the exclusive nominees’ party, before culminating with the live awards ceremony broadcast to over 84 countries around the world. The awards body also announced that the submission of entries for the awards is also ongoing for artistes, artiste managers, record producers, recording companies, video directors, disc jockeys and other relevant stakeholders can submit their work or submit on behalf of their clients via the official afrima website at www.afrima.org. All entries must be done in consonance with the guidelines which is also available on their website. 