2022 CBN Open Tennis Tournament Fall-Out Days after the final game of the 2022 CBN Senior Open Tennis Tournament held at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja, the organisers of the championship and some of the players are at loggerheads overpayment of winners’ cash prizes. One of the players, who pleaded anonymity, told The Guardian that he has been stranded in Abuja because the organisers have not paid his entitlement, adding that he has also been ejected from his hotel room over unpaid bills. He said that the players learnt that sponsors of the championship, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), paid all the money earmarked for the competition into the Ministry of Sports’ account, hence the delay in payment. Reacting to the players’ complaints, yesterday, Tournament Director, Seidu Musa, debunked the claims, saying the only players still being owed are those who failed to submit their account numbers or those that submitted incomplete bank details. He said: “Over 90 per cent of the players have received their money, only few are left. And the few who are yet to get their money are those without bank accounts. Arrangements are being made for the treasurer to pay them in cash. “Also, those that have an account number and didn’t get their money, are those who didn’t drop the correct bank account or bank name.” “So when those making the payments uploaded the number the players supplied, the money did not go. It bounced back because of the wrong account number, which they will have to re-upload again. “It’s quite unfortunate. What happened has never happened before. Previously, the federation took the money and paid to the players in cash. “Efforts are being made to do the final payment. Again, another issue was some of the players with students’ accounts, which cannot be paid, and those in that category would be paid in cash. Between Wednesday and Thursday, everything would be sorted out.” Musa noted that those that have left without collecting their money would still get it if they give their colleagues and/or friends in Abuja letter of authority to collect on their behalf.