The London-based Economist magazine is an unabashed establishment Anglo-American mouthpiece, cheerleading the invasion of, and “regime change” in, Iraq in 2003. It is totally unapologetic about its eurocentrism and white privilege. Its notorious May 2000 cover depicting Africa as “The Hopeless Continent,” and the equally odious accompanying essay by its then Africa editor, Richard Dowden, cemented the magazine’s reputation for prejudiced analyses about the non-Western world. Crouching Tiger Meets “Hopeless Continent”
The special report on “China in Africa” (the Economist, 28 May – 3 June 2022) by Gady Epstein, the Economist’s China affairs editor, and John McDermott, its Johannesburg-based Africa editor, though not quite as Afrophobic as Dowden’s jaundiced piece and certainly more nuanced, reveals a similar approach of viewing the global South through parochial Western lenses, stoking fears about the Chinese presence in Africa. Beijing is thus simultaneously portrayed as a paternal panda and a dangerous dragon.
 
The research on which this piece is based is overwhelmingly Western. Only one England-based African scholar’s published work is cited, and no Chinese sources are cited. If Chinese journalists had written such a piece on “The West in Africa” with overwhelmingly Chinese sources, would Western readers have taken it seriously? As bad as Chinese illegal gold-mining, maltreatment of African workers, polluting of rivers, and overfishing in the Gulf of Guinea identified in this piece are, these surely pale in significance to five centuries of Western slavery, colonialism, and neo-colonialism in Africa involving massacres and atrocities, and more recently, the sexual abuse of children by French soldiers in the Central African Republic (CAR).  Paternal Panda
The authors do provide valuable information that shatters some Western myths about China’s role in Africa. However, they fall into some of the same cultural tropes they seek to avoid, seemingly unable to escape their Western mindsets. They tell us that China is Africa’s largest trading partner at $254 billion; has lent African governments $160 billion over the last two decades, with two-thirds ploughed into infrastructure; and that Beijing accounts for 20% of Africa’s industrial output.
 
The authors also do well to highlight Western concerns about China having established a foothold in Africa through initiatives like the Belt and Road infrastructure initiative which has built roads, bridges, and railways, typically in 2.8 years, compared to the World Bank’s nine years. Epstein and McDermott observe, in contrast, that the US Build Back Better World and the European Union’s Global Gateway infrastructure projects remain unimplemented wish lists.
 
Contrary to widespread beliefs among many Western scholars that Chinese workers are displacing African ones, the authors highlight that 75-90% of labourers in Beijing’s projects on the continent are African. They note that 70% of 4G infrastructure in Africa has been built by Chinese firm, Huawei. They point out that the average Chinese project increases African growth by 0.41-1.49% after two years, and that widespread Western complaints about Beijing entrapping African countries in crippling debts are untrue, as only a quarter of public debt in 7 of 22 “debt distressed” African countries are Chinese.  Professor Adebajo is a senior Research Fellow at the University of Pretoria’s Centre for the Advancement of Scholarship in South Africa. 