The spectre of politically motivated violence in Ekiti State has reared its ugly head is creating fears in the mind of voters, ahead of the governorship election holding this Saturday. Violence before, during and after election, has been a recurring decimal in the state, since the return of democracy in 1999. Hardly will election be held without bloodshed in Ekiti. As the state is on the march again, to elect a governor who will succeed Dr Kayode Fayemi, there are concerns within and outside the state that the pre-election violence being recorded may affect the conduct of the poll. The election is expected to be a three-horse race among Biodun Oyebanji of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bisi Kolawole. Pockets of violence have polluted the peaceful atmosphere that was being experienced before now in the state. Although, the number of casualties cannot be ascertained, but the killing of Tope Ajayi, a member of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) as well as a staunch member of All Progressives Congress (APC), and fears of reprisal attack has heightened tension in the state. The tensed political atmosphere has led the security forces, loke the Army, Police and the Civil Defence Corps to deploy a large number of their personnel to the state capital. The streets of Ado Ekiti was deserted on Sunday, as rumours went round that rival union members were planning to take their pound of flesh.
 
The havoc is believed to be perpetrated by the leading political parties in the election. Though the candidates may not have expressly given their supporters the go ahead to unleash mayhem on their opponents, the overzealous supporters have been out of their way to attack their perceived political opponents. In the ensuing melee, life is lost and property destroyed.
 
Barely eight days to the conduct of the governorship election, Ajayi was shot dead by suspected political thugs during a bloody clash between the supporters of the ruling APC and SDP in Itaji-Ekiti, where another two persons were allegedly shot. The incident happened when Oni and Oyebanji’s supporters engaged themselves in free for all.  “The second day, the thugs laid ambush at Ayegbaju Ekiti in Oye local government area where we were to have our campaign rally; on our way, they started shooting at our vehicles, but for the effectiveness of our security backup, there would have been lost of life.”
 
“Hell was, however, let loose at Odo and Oke Ayedun Ekiti in Ikole local government area where APC thugs unleashed terror, shooting sporadically at members of SDP who were meeting after Segun Oni Campaign train had moved to Ijesha Isu, enroute Ado Ekiti.”
 
Speaking on the politically motivated killings and violence in the state, the Police Public Relations Officer Ekiti Command, Mr Sunday Abutu, said: “there was a clash at Itaji-Ekiti between opposition parties’ members. Investigation to unravel what transpired and the number of casualties, as well as the possible arrest of culprits have commenced.” There are fears among the electorate if history will not repeat itself, as they prepare for the governorship election on Saturday. In 1999, during campaigns for governorship election, unknown hoodlums unleashed mayhem on members of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD), who were holding a ward meeting at the Matthew Area of Ado Ekiti. Also, the AD woman leader was bathed with acid. Though she was rushed to the hospital, she died eventually.
 
In 2003 election, violence believed to be caused by intra-party crises later festered and assumed full-scale proportion. Between 2003 and 2007 elections, many lives were lost, especially in 2005 and 2006. The political upheaval, remotely led to declaration of a state of emergency by the then President Olusegun Obasanjo. The orgy of violence partly led to the political instability that reached its peak between 2006 and 2007, five governors governed the state within four months.  Bankole, who stated this at a three-day election reporting tips for journalists in Osogbo, urged reporters covering the election to be conscious of their safety before, during and after the election. Worried by the current turn of events leading to loss of lives just few days to the election, the foremost traditional ruler in the state, the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, has summoned emergency stakeholders meeting at his palace. Those invited to the meeting include the police, chairmen of political parties, all gubernatorial candidates, leadership of both NURTW and RTEAN, as well as that of Okada riders association, among others. The action of the prominent traditional ruler, a source said, is to douse tension and to restore sanity before the poll. 