General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry (DCLM), William Kumuyi, has said the controversy over choice of vice presidential candidate for some political parties along lines of religion remained a slippery slope. Nonetheless, he believes the exigencies of the time in Nigeria should be the fulcrum on which the decision of the choice should be based. He advised Nigerian politicians to consult widely and research extensively before concluding on the issue of Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian tickets for the 2023 presidential election. The pastor told reporters, yesterday, in Ilorin, Kwara State, after a meeting with Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, that the presidential flagbearers should look at the country’s heartbeat and people’s desires before making their decisions. “Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian ticket is a difficult and slippery area. So, political office holders should know that they are not there for themselves; they are there for all of us. They should ask and make their research about what the country wants, what the people want. If they listen to the people, we will be confident that they will listen to us when they get there,” he said. On the country’s security challenges, the cleric applauded the security agents for their performance so far. His words: “I believe that the security agents are doing their best. We can always improve. In every area of life, I would say there’s room for improvement. I credit the officers, who are putting their lives on the line to secure the whole country. We should be praying God to give them more wisdom and visible victory in the security of the country.” Kumuyi said his mission in Kwara was meant to be a blessing to the state, under special supernatural deliverance for everyone through Christ. “I will be praying for everyone at the end of every ministration for their desires, aspiration and blessings. God is our creator, whether we are Muslims, Christians or of whatever religion. He is interested in blessing everyone. I am here to be a blessing to everyone. There will be empowerment programme for all youth across religious divides, as it is meant to redirect the focus of the youth for positive future endeavours,” he added. Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara, on his part, described the empowerment programme of the church as a welcome development, adding that it is in line with the administration’s youth-focused agenda. The governor, who said the state government set up a probe panel at the end of the #EndSARS protest, added that one of the recommendations of the panel was to pay more attention to the demands of the youths. 