Nigeria Women’s cricket team, yesterday, made it two wins in two matches, defeating Germany in an historic first-ever meeting between the two sides. The win came after Nigeria had earlier defeated Brazil at the 7th Kwibuka T20 Women Tournament in Rwanda. Nigeria won the toss and put the European side to bat, a move that speaks both to their belief in their bowling attack, and their ability to chase down a score. The President of the Nigeria Cricket Federation, Uyi Akpata, said the development has justified the federation’s investment in the team. “I am particularly very happy at their performance. They had a little hitches here and there but you must admit that this team has improved from what we saw earlier in March in Lagos, and they are getting better with every game,” he stated. Teenage sensations, Lilian Ude, and Rukayat Abdulrasaq, took the new ball for Nigeria and bowled beautifully but it was Rachael Samson with four wickets for 13 runs from her four overs that did real damage. Christina Gough 22(49) and Sharanya Sadarangani 22(30) were the only ones to put up any real resistance. In their reply, the Nigerians were expected to make light work of the total, but their innings got off to a shaky start, losing Kehinde Abdulquadri and Agatha Obulor cheaply before the pair of Esther Sandy and Salome Sunday 32(40) took the game away from Germany. There was a mini-collapse towards the end after Sunday lost her wicket in what can only be described as a rush of blood, but Abigail Igbobie and Favour Eseigbe made sure Nigeria got the victory. This win moves Nigeria to the top of the standings at the ongoing KwibukaT20 Tournament in Kigali along with Kenya, as the only teams with 100 percent record so far. Rwanda nicked their first win at the event over Brazil with a 35-run victory after losing to Kenya in their Opening game by six wicket. On match day three today, Nigeria will face Botswana, and hopes to a third win to remain top of the table and a better chance at the Kwibuka honours. 