 Photo Pixabay Tomatoes are classified as fruits by science because fruits contain a single or more seeds and are produced by a plant’s bloom. Tomatoes grow from small yellow blossoms on the vine and naturally contain a large number of seeds, just like other real fruits. These seeds will be gathered and utilized to grow additional tomato plants in the future. Tomatoes (Solanum Lycopersicum) are nightshade fruits native to South America. It is widely consumed and served as a vegetable, notwithstanding its botanical identity as a fruit. Tomatoes are the most common dietary source of lycopene, an antioxidant linked to a number of health benefits, including a reduced risk of heart disease and cancer. They’re high in vitamin C, potassium, folate, and vitamin K. When completely ripe, tomatoes are usually red, although they can also be yellow, orange, green, or purple. Tomatoes are also divided into subspecies, each with its own shape and flavour. There are many secrets that the nutrients sourced in tomatoes has to offer in the skin and general wellbeing of the body. This article aims to unravel the information you need to know about tomatoes. Tomatoes are about 95% water. The other 5% of the diet is mainly composed of carbohydrates and fiber. What nutrients do they offer? Carbohydrates account for 4% of raw tomatoes, or less than 5 grams per medium specimen 123 grams. Glucose and fructose are simple sugars that account for over 70% of the carbohydrate content. Fiber, tomatoes are a good source of dietary fiber, with an average-sized tomato containing roughly 1.5 grams. Insoluble fibers such as hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin make up the majority of the fibers in tomatoes 87 percent. Tomatoes is a rich source of vitamins and minerals. Vitamin C is an extremely potent antioxidant. This vitamin serves as both a nutrition and an antioxidant. Approximately 28% of the Daily Reference Intake (RDI) can be found in a medium-sized tomato. Potassium is an essential mineral that aids in blood pressure management and the prevention of heart disease. Vitamin K1 is a vitamin that is required for survival. Vitamin K (phylloquinone) is necessary for blood coagulation and bone health. Folate is a B vitamin that can be found in a variety of foods vitamin B9. Folate is a B vitamin that is necessary for tissue growth and cell function. It’s particularly important for expectant women. Vitamin and plant component content in tomatoes varies a lot between varieties and collection seasons. Tomatoes as well contain some beneficial compounds. Lycopene is a red pigment and antioxidant that has been intensively researched for its health benefits. Beta carotene is a kind of vitamin A. Beta carotene is an antioxidant that gives meals a yellow or orange color and is turned into vitamin A in your body. Naringenin. This flavonoid, which is found in tomato skin, has been demonstrated to reduce inflammation and protect mice from a variety of diseases. Chlorogenic acid is a kind of chlorogenic acid. Chlorogenic acid is a potent antioxidant molecule that may help persons with high blood pressure. The color of tomatoes is due to chlorophyll and carotenoids such as lycopene. 