Super Eagles Coach, Jose Peseiro, is thrilled by the quality of talents in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), saying the league has the potential to become Africa’s best. Speaking after watching a Matchday 35 game between Akwa United and Plateau United at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo, Peseiro described Nigeria as a country full of talented players, who have proven themselves at the highest level of football, while commending the organisers of the league and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for upholding high standard to discover and nurture football talents in the country. The Portuguese said he enjoyed the quality of play by the teams, as well as the fans’ passion, promising to go around all the football venues next season to see the players and also know where he can contribute to the development of the league. “This is my second time watching the NPFL game… first was in Kwara, now in Uyo and so far, I can say the quality of the league is high and the players are committed. “The season is almost over, but from next season, I will go round all the football venues and watch the players and see how many we can bring into the national team. After the game, I interacted with the coaches, gave my assessment and also asked them how I can improve my team.” He reiterated his promise that the Super Eagles are open to everyone, regardless of where they play. Meanwhile, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has congratulated Rivers United for winning the 2021/22 NPFL. Rivers United has officially confirmed the champion of the 2021/2022 NPFL season following Plateau United’s 1-2 away loss to Akwa United on Saturday. A statement Wike’s Special Assistant (Media), Kelvin Ebiri, said the governor commended the players and coaching staff of the club on Sunday, following the memorable victory, which ended their five-year title wait. Wike attributed the achievement to the talented team’s determination, adding that it is most heartening that by virtue of the league win, the club will represent the country at the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Champions League next season. He added that Rivers United’s triumph at the 2021/2022 NPFL has brought a wave of joy and happiness to the people of Rivers State and the country at large. “I wish to express my heartfelt appreciation to the coaching staff, particularly, the capable players of Rivers United for the valuable efforts they made to emerge the winner of the 2021/2022 NPFL. “The government and good people of Rivers State are very proud of the team’s exploits following their dogged performances and resilience display throughout the 2021/2022 season. It is worthy to note that over the years, Rivers United has brought so much joy and happiness to football fans and supporters all over the country. This victory, no doubt, marks a major milestone in Rivers State football’s history.”