• Let’s Unite Together To Bring Peace To Nigeria — Gumel President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee, Habu Ahmed Gumel, yesterday, at a ceremony to mark this year’s Olympic Day Celebration, joined the rest of the world to call for peace in Nigeria, just as the International Olympics Committee President, Thomas Bach, appealed to member nations to give peace a chance. Gumel, who spoke at the event to flag off the  Celebration held at the National Stadium, Surulere, also highlighted various activities that included, the Olympic Day Run, aerobic exercise, demonstration of sports, and distribution of certificates to participants to mark the occasion. The NOC president, who read a ‘Message For Olympic Day 2022’ on behalf of the IOC President, said: “When our founder, Pierre de Coubertin, revived the Olympic Games in 1894, he saw it as a way to promote peace among nations and people. “Always the visionary, he said: ‘Should the institution of the Olympic Games proper, it can become a potent factor in securing universal peace’. “Therefore, the purpose of the Olympic Movement was always to promote peace through sport. “This Olympic Day, when we celebrate the creation of the Olympic Movement, is, therefore, the perfect moment to remind ourselves of this peace mission.” The message added, “Sports always builds bridges and brings people together in peace and solidarity. In these difficult times we are living through, with conflicts and division on the rise, we need this unifying power of sports more than ever before. “This Olympic spirit guides us as we strive to go faster, aim higher, become stronger, by standing together — for a peaceful world. “On this Olympic Day, please join us as we call on everyone around the world: ‘Give Peace a Chance’.” Corroborating Bach’s message, Gumel seized the occasion to also call on every Nigerian to allow peace to reign for everyone to have rest of mind. “This message was sent to the rest of the world to make sure that this celebration is done properly. My appeal is that we should please let us work together; unite together to bring peace to our country, and to the whole world. “We need to exercise peace in everything we do so that we can have rest of mind. Because without peace, you cannot have rest of mind. Let us continue to pray to God Almighty for Him to continue to guide us, and protect us, so that whatever we do, it will be in the best interest of our country and ourselves so that everybody can be happy. “And on behalf of the International Olympic Committee, and Nigeria Olympic Committee, I hereby flag off the Olympic Day, today June 25, 2022; May God bless us,” he stated. Speaking on the occasion, the Secretary-General of the NOC, Olabanji Oladapo, thanked the IOC boss for sustaining the values of the body, while also commending the participants. “Sports is an ingredient by all the system and once you get involved in sports, it is sure that you’re fulfilling one of the essentials of health requirement of this world. “I want to thank the president of IOC for continuing to carry the banner and ensure that Olympic Day is celebrated all over the world. And also want to thank all the participants for taking part in the celebration because, without you, the celebration won’t be a colourful one,” he said. At the event were dignitaries that included the Lagos State Sports Commission Director of Sports Development, Moses Olusegun Kolawole, Olympian, Henry Amike and others.