 Canon’s (Canon-CNA.com) R-tour in Egypt – testimony to the company’s commitment and dedication towards bring a variety of technological solutions to Africa; Canon will also introduce for the first time in Egypt, its revolutionary mirrorless range of products – EOS R3, EOS R5 C, EOS R7 & EOS R10 in an endeavor to introduce a much wider array of technology solutions in Africa.  Canon Central and North Africa announced today of its highly-awaited R-tour which commenced from June 14th in Egypt, in line with the company’s continued commitment to Africa and its endeavor to bring the best in class for imaging technology solutions to the continent. The exclusive launch event brought together company executives, along with industry experts, professional photographers, videographers, and leading content creators from Egypt for an intriguing and interactive session that included panel discussions, video showcase, and cultural performances. The event witnessed Amine Djouahra, Canon’s Sales and Marketing Director as a keynote speaker whilst Mostafa Makram – Youtuber and Postproduction Trainer, Tarek Abdullah – Photography and Art Director, and Ahmed Waffay, Filmmaker who participated in an insightful panel discussion which was held on the trending topic of ‘The rising industry of content creators. COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE Canon’s commitment to Africa in ensuring a continuous stream of new products and solutions is consistently introduced in the market to meet its rapidly evolving needs and underpins the company’s objective of launching R-tour in Egypt. The R-tour kicked-off with the launch of cutting-edge products from the Canon’s much renowned EOS R system. These will include EOS R3, EOS R5 C, EOS R7, and EOS R10. The EOS R3 offers all the familiarity and speed of Canon’s renowned EOS-1 series, with the innovation and versatility of the pioneering EOS R System. With a brand new, innovative 24.1megapixel sensor, the EOS R3 gives an optimal balance of performance, resolution, and speed to offer news and sports photographers a camera to outperform and outpace the competition. Likewise, The EOS R5 C is a powerful, hybrid cinema camera which combines the professional filmmaking features of the Cinema EOS range with the EOS R System’s photo capabilities. A high-resolution, full frame CMOS sensor, DIGIC X processor and the RF Mount, are the crucial three elements that enable high fidelity 8K capture, and 45 megapixels still photo capture at burst speeds up to 20 frames per second, all in a single body of the EOS R5 C. ONE BRAND, MANY SOLUTIONS “Canon as a brand has always been at the forefront of innovation and technology and as a company, we take pride in putting people first. The R-tour is an embodiment of both these things, we want to showcase our cutting-edge technology through the launch of our new products whilst getting closer to people. We are the only brand that offers all solutions from input and output to all segments of end user be it home user, business owner, beginner to professional photographer, content creators, videographers, filmmakers etc. Thus, it becomes essential for us to create strong channels of opportunities where we can directly interact and engage with our diverse set of audience to ensure we take these relationships a notch higher. We want our fans to come forward and experience the beauty of our products first-hand rather than just hearing or seeing these from a distance. The R-tour will allow us to do so in myriad ways, people can have a trial-run at our products on spot, provide us with valuable feedback and have their questions answered by experts. As I see it, the R-tour is a win-win for both the company and the audience. We are thrilled to be in Egypt, a market that’s growing rapidly and we are excited for our fans to unveil the brilliance of our new products from the EOS R system,” said Amine Djouahra, Director of Sales and Marketing, Canon Central and North Africa. ENGAGE, CONNECT, LEARN With the central theme of Canon’s R-tour revolving around building relationships with its various sets of audiences, the company has created experiential booths to promote the spirit of interaction, engagement, and connectivity. Audiences experienced seven different booths each highlighting a different theme, thereby allowing fans to immerse themselves in the Canon universe. The first booth, namely ‘Video booth’, focused on production shooting and cinematic set up with cameras such as Canon C500 Mark II and C300 Mark III being put on display. The second booth gave fans a glimpse into the world of virtual reality whereas the third one called ‘Green Chroma’ provided insights into post-production with Canon C70 + R5 C being put on display. Furthermore, the next booth was a hit amongst action and sports photography lovers with Canon’s illustrious EOS R3 +RF 15-35mm being put on display. The fifth booth was all about Canon’s complete mirrorless range of R system – RP, R, R6, R5, R7, R10 and RF lenses thus making it a hotspot for Generation R community members. The next booth shed light on the needs of gaming and vlogging community with Canon M50 Mark II. Last but not the least, the ‘Quality and Color’ booth captured a splendid show of Middle Eastern light in a bid to celebrate the spirit of Canon’s community in Egypt. Post the tour, Canon envisions to continue engaging with end-users through a series of events including Photo walks, Masterclasses, Competitions, and Generation R Community events among others.  The tour provided fans an opportunity to test-drive Canon products right on the spot, and get their queries answered directly through company experts. CANON COMMUNITY – A DRIVING FORCE Canon has been successfully represented in Egypt through distributors and partners that have built a solid customer base in the country. Through the launch of its new products incorporating cutting-edge and world-class technology, Canon aims to be part of Egypt’s digital transformation journey by elevating the imaging technology sector in the country. Canon’s relentless pursuits in enhancing the local distribution network in Egypt, supported by partners as well local Canon employees in-country, has been the driving force in successfully implementing the company’s closer to customer strategy. To further strengthen the company’s focused approach towards a key industry vertical of System integrators & Value-Added Resellers (SI-VAR), Canon hosted an exclusive conference on June 15th, 2022 which provided an opportunity for SI-VARs to witness the wide range of Office Personal Printing (OPP) products & solutions that covered the range of Canon PIXMA G series, Inkjet printers, GX Model, Laser SFP, Laser MFP and TR150 printer. The company has successfully launched its R-tour previously in Morocco and Kenya and intends to continue this journey of building relationships by getting closer to its customers throughout the African continent. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei (bit.ly/3Q46Suv) – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: Canon-CNA.com