Download logo FIFA (www.FIFA.com) is pleased to announce that the accreditation process for media representatives wishing to cover the Team Workshop for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022™ is now open.  The workshop will take place in Doha and highlight the key organisational and administrative aspects in the lead-up to the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, update qualified teams on preparations for the competition and offer them the possibility to raise questions regarding different functional areas such as security, marketing, logistics, customs, accreditation and transport, etc. Accredited media representatives will be able to attend the mixed zone with representatives from qualified teams. Also, a photo opportunity from the plenary session of the Team Workshop for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 will be organised for accredited photographers and TV camera operators. The media working area will be open 4-5 July 2022. Deadline for registration: 25 June 2022 at 19:00 (Doha local time). Media accreditation process The accreditation application form is available via the following link (https://fifa.fans/3b3etcS). Please follow the instructions on the portal to apply. Broadcasters There is a separate accreditation process for radio and television broadcasters. For more information, please contact nrh@fifa.org. COVID-19 guidelines* Pre-arrival testing All international participants accredited for the Team Workshop are required to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test, taken no more than 48 hours prior to departure from the country of origin, regardless of their vaccination status or whether they have proof of a previous COVID-19 infection or not, and regardless of the country of origin. Note: Qatar has recently removed the requirement of a pre-arrival test for travellers from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), European Union (EU), and United Kingdom (UK) if they are able to present proof of immunity issued by their country. Pre-entry registration (also referred to as the Exceptional Entry Permit) This document is required to travel to Qatar considering travel restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. You will receive this document by email closer to your travel date. Arrival testing Fully vaccinated and/or recovered individuals are exempt from taking an arrival test in Qatar. Those who are not fully vaccinated and have not been previously infected with COVID-19 are required to undergo a mandatory rapid antigen test within 24 hours of their arrival in Qatar. Ehteraz app Everyone entering Qatar must have downloaded the Ehteraz application, which tracks the traveller’s health status and must be presented when accessing public buildings, the metro and other sites. The Ehteraz app should be activated upon arrival in Qatar and works with some international SIM cards. Local SIM cards are sold at the airport and staff members can assist with the app. The Ehteraz app is also required when entering shops, restaurants, shopping malls and other establishments in Qatar, including the event venues. Only adults with “green” health status on their app are allowed entry to these places. For fully vaccinated individuals, it is also recommended to have a hard or soft copy of your vaccination certificate (or proof of recovery), as some establishments, such as indoor restaurants and gyms, can only be accessed by vaccinated people. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FIFA. Media team contact details: 
For any enquiries regarding media operations at the Team Workshop for the FIFA World Cup 2022 please contact mediaoperations@2022.qa. For general information about the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, please contact the FIFA Media Office (media@fifa.org) or the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy Media Office (media@sc.qa). Contact for African media: AfricanMedia@fifa.org