Former Lagos State governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu has won the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 general election. Tinubu won the ticket at the APC presidential primary election at Eagles Square, Abuja on Wednesday. The former Lagos State governor polled 1271 votes in total to clinch the ticket ahead of former minister of transportation Rotimi Amaechi, vice president Yemi Osinbajo and Senate President Ahmad Lawan. Amaechi was the closest to Tinubu with 316 votes. Osinbajo, who many thought would give Tinubu a tough run, came third with 235 votes while Lawan polled 152 votes. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello had 47 votes followed by Cross Rivers State governor Ben Ayade who polled 37 votes. Former minister of science and technology Ogbonnaya Onu had one vote. Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi polled 38 votes. Senator Ahmed Sani Yerima polled four votes, former minister of state for education Emeka Nwajiuba polled one vote while Pastor Tunde Bakare of the Citadel Global Community Church, former Imo State governor Rochas Okorocha, Tein Jack-Rich and Ike-Obasi Mokelu had no votes. Before the election commenced, Tinubu was endorsed by Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, former governors of Ogun; Ibikunle Amosun, Akwa Ibom; Godswill Akpabio, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, former House of Representatives Speaker Dimeji Bankole and the only female aspirant Uju Kennedy Ohanenye. “I have the expertise,” Tinubu said in his speech before the voting started. “My record of corporate leadership, my financial expertise and my experience as an executive governor make me unique omong the spirants, giving me the requisite skills to accelerate progressive reforms that will change the face of the national economy.” President Muhammadu while addressing party delegates on Tuesday night appealed to them to vote for an aspirant that will help the APC retain power after the 2023 presidential election. “Our choice of flag bearer must be formidable,” Buhari said while appealing to elect a candidate that commands the ability “to unify the country and capacity to address our critical challenges.” Tinubu, who paid glowing tribute to President Buhari on his effort to reposition the country in the last seven years, stressed that he had the wherewithal to administer the country effectively. “Though our tribe and tongue may differ, we must build a united country, premised on equity, fairness and justice. True reform and progress lie not in copying others but in identifying our own opportunities,” Tinubu said. “To lead Nigerians is a sacred trust, which I do not take lightly or seek selfishly. By giving me the party’s mandate, I hereby make my solemn vow to make Nigeria the best home for its citizens.” 