Edo Boys High School and Iyoba College have won the fourth Templars and Patrelli Secondary School Cricket Competition for boys and girls respectively. Edo Boys High School beat Ohonre Grammar School by six wickets to lift the Templars trophy for boys, while Iyoba College defeated Glorious Crown Group of Schools to claim their Patreli crown. Vice Chairman of Edo Cricket Assocation, Abraham Oviawe, said the performance from this year’s edition definitely counts as the biggest exhibition of talents, since the school competition was instituted four years ago. “We had the highest number of entries this year and that means more schools are buying into the cricket development project of the state. I also praise the state’s coaching team for their efforts,” he said. The 20 overs game for boys saw Ohonre opening with 30 runs for the loss of 10 wickets in 15.4 overs before Edo Boys’ team rose to the crease to chase down the score in 6.5 overs. Top bowling performance was by Onoshagbe Joseph (Edo boys), who bowled four wickets for one run in two overs. Also, Solomon Chlemanya led the batting statistic of the closing game with 11 runs from five balls. The first Innings saw Iyoba College dominate by scoring the highest number of runs recorded in the competition, a total of 95 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 20 overs. Glorious Crown was unable to recover and could only produce 34 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 11.3 overs in the second innings of the game. The national women’s team, who are camped in Benin in preparation for the Kwibuka tournament in Rwanda, were present to encourage the young cricketers aspiring to represent the country. Newly appointed coach of the national women’s team, Leke Oyede, said the visit was important for the young players as they would have the opportunity to interact with the women they look up to, learn how to overcome challenges they would face in the sport and also learn how to balance their academics with cricket. Founding partner of Patreli Partners law firm, the sponsor of the women competition, Mrs. Obosa Akpata, expressed joy at the involvement of girls in cricket. “It is encouraging to see the number of girls infused with the game and also to see the sportsmanship and team play amongst the children. We are delighted to be part of this and grateful for opportunity to contribute to the development of women cricket in Edo State,” she said. Oviawe added, “What we are seeing here is the seed that, if nurtured, would grow to support the state team that performed spectacularly at the National Sports Festival and are already getting calls in the national teams.” He noted that the different developmental initiatives, of the which the Templars’ is part of, has been the driving force in the state’s rise in cricket development. “I think the growth we are experiencing is a combination of many things and we would be including the visionary leadership of the state government and the chairman of the cricket association, Uyi Akpata.”