Nigeria Ethnic Nationalities Youth Leaders Council (NENYLC) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to consider succinct administrative management of the ongoing Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) registration due to the increasing voters’ interests to get registered. President General, NENYLC, Terry Obieh, who made this appeal on Friday in Abuja while briefing the media on the state of the nation, urged the electoral body to extend the exercise by two months to enable more people to register. Stressing the need for the INEC to provide more PVC registration machines, Obie advised the Commission to open more registration centres before the closing date. According to him, the youths, which constitute over 65 percent of the nation’s population are willing to get their PVCs and should be given the opportunity to carry out their civic responsibility of choosing their leaders during the elections. The President, while condemning the attacks on the Igbos and other non-indigenous communities in Lagos by thugs on the heels of INEC voter’s registration, said the group is particularly concerned about hearing from the presidential candidates of all political parties on how they plan to salvage the country. He urged all presidential candidates to unite and put Nigeria first in the course of their political engagements across the country. He continued: “We call on all political parties to give sense of belonging to every segments of our population. We need each other to move this country forward. We cannot afford being further polarised and divided at this perilous times. “Unity, security and national development, are key drivers towards attaining the Nigeria of our dream, while 2023 election shouldn’t be do or die affair, hence the need for all presidential candidates, political parties and citizens not to overheat the polity with hate speeches. “We, therefore, demand that all political parties should, as a matter of necessity, balance religious and ethnic-related issues, so as to protect and sustain the values of democracy in Nigeria, being a circular state in compliance with the 1999 constitutional provisions. “We call on parties to embrace Muslim, Christian and Traditional Religion Practitioners, based on competitive competence and positive values, not predicated on compensatory opportunism. “Politics in a saner climes is all about constructive criticisms, issue-based engagement and genuine debates, where we shall at a much later date fix a date sometimes in November, for the hosting of a National Youth 2023 Presidential Debates, where Nigerian Youths can ask questions from preferred candidates. Rather than War-War, let us Jaw-Jaw.” On his part, Secretary, NENYLC, Aare Oladotun Hassan said the body would be embarking on a national peace tour to promote PVC registration awareness, as well building a synergy with INEC, security agencies and other critical stakeholders at all levels to collectively drive the ship of the state to an expected promise land beyond 2023. According to Hassan, Nigerians urgently need a presidential candidate to restructure the Constitution and governance in compliance with modernity by putting up aggressive master plan on job creation, mass employment opportunities, agricultural revolution, education, health care, technological advancement; rebuild a stronger foreign policy partnership base, and most importantly fight insecurity, insurgency and other wanton crimes. 