Nigeria’s women football national team, Super Falcons, arrived in the capital of Morocco, Rabat, yesterday, from Casablanca, ahead of the 2022 African Women Cup of Nations, which kicks off on Saturday in four centres across the North African country. Nigeria are the defending champions and they seek to win their 10th crown in 12 editions of the championship, which pits the best African countries in a battle to decide the best football playing nation among the lot. According to thenff.com, the Super Falcons have opened their camp in Rabat, where they will train for seven days before their opening game against the biggest challengers, South Africa, on July 4. Nigeria will also play against Botswana on July 7 and Burundi on July 10 in the group phase of the competition. All four semifinalists in Morocco will qualify to represent Africa at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand next year, with the fifth-placed team handed an opportunity to also gain a place through a playoff tournament holding early next year. Before leaving for Morocco yesterday, top officials of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) hosted them to a dinner on Sunday, where they charged the team to strive to win their 10th title of the championship. Speaking at the dinner held at Eko Hotels and Suites, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick said: “There is not much for me tell you about the need to go all out there and conquer; it is something you are used to, because you have the spirit, the energy and the aura of champions. You have won this trophy nine times out of 11 and you have to go for the 10th with equal passion and desire.
 
“Surely, there will be teams that would believe they can topple you from your throne; from your position as champions. I have no doubt that you have the capacity to deal with every opposition and emerge champions once more.”
 
The dinner guests included NFF Executive Committee Member and Chairman of the Nigeria Women Football League, Ms Aisha Falode; Head Coach, Randy Waldrum and his assistants; 25 players and Super Falcons’ backroom staff. 