• As Maia Upset Sakkari At Nottingham Open Aryna Sabalenka will meet Ekaterina Alexandrova in The Rosmalen Grass Court Championship final, while Beatriz Haddad Maia set up a showdown with Alison Riske in the Nottingham Open showpiece. Sabalenka, ranked sixth in the world, put paid to Shelby Rogers 7-6 (8-6) 6-0, as the favourite in the Netherlands reached her second singles final this year. World number, 30 Alexandrova had little difficulty against Veronika Kudermetova as she triumphed 6-3 6-1 to reach her first singles final of the season. Sabalenka and Alexandrova have split four previous meetings with two wins apiece; with the latter taking the most recent clash in straight sets at the Moscow quarter-finals last year. Seventh seed Haddad Maia stunned favourite Maria Sakkari in the quarter-finals to tee up the last-four clash with Tereza Martincova in Nottingham. The Brazilian raced out the blocks once more to progress past Martincova, with the former 6-3 4-1 up before the Czech retired with injury. Rain stopped play in the second semi-final between Viktorija Golubic and Riske with the scores level at one set each. Sixth seed, Riske capitalised from that point onwards to edge past Golubic 6-3 4-6 6-3. Meanwhile top seed, Maria Sakkari, was eliminated from the Nottingham Open at the quarter-final stage by world number 48, Beatriz Haddad Maia on Friday. Haddad Maia made it three career wins out of three against Sakkari with a 6-4 4-6 6-3 victory to reach her first WTA semi-final on grass. The Brazilian will now take on Tereza Martincova, who beat last year’s runner-up, Zhang Shuai 6-3 6-2, for a place in today’s final. Sixth seed, Alison Riske, is also through to the last four after recovering from a set down to beat home favourite Harriet Dart 4-6 6-2 6-1. Riske’s sixth career semi-final on grass will come against Viktorija Golubic, who surprised Ajla Tomljanovic 6-3 7-6 (8-6) in the final match of the day. At The Rosmalen Grass Court Championships, second seed Belinda Bencic’s participation was ended with a straight-sets defeat to Veronika Kudermetova. French Open quarter-finalist, Kudermetova, prevailed 6-4 6-2 in 87 minutes to snap a three-match losing streak against Bencic.