Department of State Security (DSS), yesterday, rescued 21 youths, when they stormed a house close to the Jos Metropolitan Development Board (JMDB) quarters in Tudun Wada of Jos North Local Council of Plateau State. Disclosing the development to newsmen in Jos, the Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) said the rescued victims, during interrogation, claimed to have been forcefully brought to the house and converted to Christianity. But the General Secretary of Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), Rev. Yunusa Nmadu, said the house, which the DSS raided on June 14, 2022, was under the custody of the church. Denying that it was used to convert people to Christianity, he urged people to disregard the claim.
 
According to JNI’s Director, Aid Group, Plateau State Chapter/Chief Security Officer, Jos Central Mosque, Danjuma Khalid, the raid came after one of the victims, Abdulrahaman Usaini, who escaped from the house, reported that they had been camped in the house for eight months. Khalid said the DSS operatives raided the house following JNI’s report. His words:“On June 13, a group of people, including Usaini, who ran away from the house, met me here in the central mosque, saying that they had come to report an issue regarding forceful adoption and conversion of their pupils to Christianity by ECWA in Jos. “The escapee told me that he and one Nura Usman were forcefully taken by some individuals in a Toyota Camry car from Gombe State to ECWA headquarters, Jos, and after being documented, they were later taken to a house at Tudun Wada where they were camped. “On June 14, we reported the case to the DSS, Plateau State Command and the escapee narrated to the DSS how they were taken from Gombe to Jos and how he escaped from the house in Tudun Wada area.” According to him, after the report, the DSS went to the house in Tudun Wada with the escapee and rescued 21 children. The Guardian learnt that two of the victims had been handed over to JNI, while the remaining victims were left in DSS custody pending when their parents or relatives are found.