Mr Phrank Shaibu, Special Assistant, Public Communication to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has explained the strategies that enabled Atiku to win the PDP ticket. Shaibu, responding to questions as a guest on Arise Television at the weekend, defended the choice of the former Vice-President by the PDP national delegates with the belief that Atiku has got what it takes to turn the economic and security situations of Nigeria around. Atiku’s age, according to the Kogi-born media consultant, is no barrier to offering the much-needed leadership Nigeria needs, at this point. He said,  “Atiku’s age (75), is not a parameter to measure his capability and I’ll tell you too that Atiku is not only fit to run, but he also’s fit to lead, and he’s got the capacity irrespective of his age. The current president of the United States, Joe Biden is in the same age group (with Atiku). And Biden is not doing badly. At 74, Atiku acquired a Master’s degree in International Relations. He was not too old to read because if you are too old to learn, you’ll be too little to lead”. On why Atiku did not go round the country to canvass delegates’ votes as before and like other presidential aspirants did, Shaibu responded, saying, “We have to change strategy. Sometimes you have to tactically withdraw so that you can strategically advance. We started our consultation early. If you noticed, media-wise, we were quiet. Our campaign this time around was underreported, deliberately. It was a matter of strategy.” “PDP is a political party and not a pressure group. Atiku is a man who has got contacts across the federation, so he does not need to be physically present in a location or to be loquacious. “There are things that an Atiku Abubakar cannot do, will not do and can never do. So, we will never get to that level. He (Atiku) has structures spread across all geo-political zones. We are talking about self-induced crises, characters within the PDP who precipitate crises, decorate themselves, canonise themselves as problem solvers; when you are a destabilising agent, then you turn around and say ‘oh, this problem, if not for me, we will not be where we are’. We cannot subject ourselves to those kinds of outdated tactics”. On how much his principal paid to induce delegates, the spokesman said he was not at the venue of the convention. He however added “Atiku did not need inducement. Professionally, there are certain things I would not allow myself to be dragged into. Would you say that Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto State Governor and presidential aspirant who later stepped down for Atiku) was induced or given dollars before he changed his mind? We do not even need to induce delegates with money. “Whether you like it or not, the ruling party has been playing the ostrich, waiting for who will emerge as the candidate of PDP and that’s why they keep shifting the goal post, including but not limited to arm twisting the umpire to extend the dates of the conduct of the primary elections.” Is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ready to take over from APC, as a united opposition party despite zoning issues? Shaibu said, “The advantage we have as a party in the opposition is that there’s a long period between the primary elections and the conduct of the main election and it gives us an opportunity to mend fences, reunite, build bridges, come together as a force. But don’t forget too that the major determinant for this election in 2023 is hunger and anger, and that’s one factor that can unite Nigerians. They want a change, from what is happening. In fact, they know what President Jonathan left behind and what they have today. Don’t forget too that in the education sector when they talk about insecurity, insecurity, insecurity, for us in the Atiku team, the first attack on the issue of insecurity is using education as a tool. “What we need is improvement in infrastructure and quality. We can replicate the best standard and quality in university education. We are coming to the government to clear debts but we will also generate money. We are building the Global Centre for Out of School Children in Yola.” On the restructuring of the Nigerian polity promised by Atiku and the calamour for a Southern president after President Muhammadu Buhari’s eight years in the saddle, the spokesman explained, “when Atiku becomes president, the first thing he would do is reunite Nigeria by appointing people of character into office. That’s the kind of person Atiku is. He is not a tribal jingoist, he’s not an ethnic politician. People need to believe in the leadership (they can trust). They need to know that this leader believes in the fact that he needs to use our dynamic diversity as a unifying factor; to bring people of proven character around him who will help him to do the job. “The president cannot be everywhere but if you put square pegs in square holes you will get the results. The matter of restructuring will be total. It will be decided by the people and will go whole hog. He (Atiku) has said it and he means it. At 75 years, Atiku is not afraid of anything in life apart from being answerable to his creator. So, all he wants now is about service to Nigerians. What we have in Nigeria today is beyond tribe and religion. “(On North/South zoning), what we have in Nigeria today is beyond tribe and region. Hunger does not recognise tribe, hunger does not recognise region. What we have in Nigeria today is an extreme situation…that’s why the PDP jettisoned zoning. I am from the Middle Belt (North Central), ordinarily, I am from Kogi State, why did I not wake up to say I am supporting a Yahaya Bello because he is from my state, he is from the middle belt, the middle belt has not produced a president?”. 