Kaduna APC group endorses Maigari for Sani CHARIS Royale Initiative (CRI), a faith-based organisation in Lagos State, has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) flagbearer, Bola Tinubu, to pick Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State as his running mate. According to the group, Lalong has, in the last seven years, worked hard to prevent religious crisis in Plateau State.
CRI has a vision to raise, attract and nourish ambassadors of Christ who will become agents of change in Nigeria. 
  
Interim National Secretary of CRI, Oludele Adeogun, said the advice was borne out of the group’s modest contribution to ensure that the masses, especially Christians, have confidence in the APC presidential candidate. Adeogun said the attack on St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, Owo, penultimate Sunday, remained a sore point in an attempt by some unscrupulous elements to pitch Christians against Muslims, adding that “there must be conscious effort to reassure Christians in the light of prevailing circumstances.” He, however, asserted that those talking about Muslim/Muslim ticket were not considering the level of ethnic and religious tension plaguing the country and the need for balancing. “It is important to point out that Buhari’s victory in 2015 was propelled by his sensitivity to the religious reality of Nigerian political state, which CRI championed then. CRI said in 2015 that its decision to endorse the Buhari/Osinbajo presidential ticket was in line with its mission to promote good governance and development. SIMILARLY, the Coalition of Southern Kaduna All Progressives Congress (APC) Volunteer Groups (CSKVG) has resolved to present Kaduna State former Commissioner for Agriculture and Commerce, Dr. Manzo Maigari, as running mate to the governorship candidate for the 2023 elections, Sen. Uba Sani. According to the group, as APC members and stakeholders in Southern Kaduna, we have resolved to rally support for the victory of the party in next year’s general elections. In a statement issued in Kaduna by the Convener of CSKVG, Aneku Audu, yesterday, the group pointed out: “To attain electoral success, we are concerned with the choice of who occupies the running mate position. We find it expedient to call on the leaders of our party, especially from the southern part, to tread with caution on the matter and ensure we get a candidate that would add value to the candidacy of Sani. “After painstaking assessment of running mate aspirants from Southern Kaduna, we have chosen Dr. Manzo Daniel Maigari, a former Commissioner of Agriculture and Commerce in the first tenure of Governor Nasir el-Rufai. We chose him after painstaking assessment of his performance in the two ministries he served and the landmark achievements that followed.” Accessing the performance of Maigiri, he said the Ministry for Agriculture under him supported of no fewer than 300 Southern Kaduna youths and women with grants, ranging from N1.3 million to N3.2 million to start agribusinesses. He added: “Apart from establishing three commodities aggregation centres to boost agribusiness in the state, no fewer than 252 Southern Kaduna youths were recruited as Forest Rangers. As Commissioner for Commerce, he upgraded the 24 BATCs to Community Skills Development Centres in Kaduna and fully equipped them for optimal use.” The Guardian gathered that the group has not even consulted Manzo on its plan to have him as Sani’s running mate, but it called on APC leaders, especially from Southern Kaduna, to nominate the veterinary doctor and accomplished technocrat for the post. “Even out of government, the former commissioner has demonstrated loyalty and faithfulness to the APC. Nominating him as running mate will boost the party’s chances for victory,” the group added.