To reduce poverty through capacity building in Nigeria, QNET, a Global e-commerce and direct selling leader, has unveiled a financial literacy programme aimed at equipping youths with the knowledge needed for socio-economic empowerment. The programme tagged: ‘FinGreen’, is designed to impart critical financial management skills and knowledge by training young leaders drawn from various communities to become trainers and champions of financial literacy and economic empowerment among the youth. Unveiling the programme in Lagos, the sub-Saharan Africa Regional Manager for QNET, Biram Fall, said, the programme targets 6,000 Nigerian youths, starting with 30 participants drawn from different non-governmental organisations. He stressed the need for financial literacy in equipping individuals with knowledge of financial risk to make more informed choices and improve financial well-being. According to him, with the launch done in partnership with Financial Literacy for All (FLFA), QNET has kicked off the pilot phase of the firms’ initiative. Fall said FinGreen recognises the recommendations outlined in the National Financial Literacy Framework by the Central Bank of Nigeria, which highlights the critical need for financial literacy as an important skill for financial inclusion. The programme, he said, addresses some of the gaps identified in the national survey by taking participants through, saving and investment, money management, banking, risk management and insurance among other key topics. He said: “Being financially literate today allows an individual to be better poised for certain financial roadblocks which, in turn, reduces the chances of personal economic distress. “We developed this programme because sustainability is a core pillar of our values at QNET. We aim to make a long-lasting impact in the communities we operate in and looking at the growing youth population in the country, it is important to ensure that future and current generations have the requisite information needed to make empowered socio-economic decisions. “FinGreen focuses on imparting knowledge not just to the pilot group but transmitting the same information to people in their spheres which causes a ripple effect in financial literacy. “Consumer awareness and financial literacy combined with an effective consumer protection framework,  are important requirements for increasing financial intermediation in these sectors.” Also, the Managing Director of Transblue, QNET’s partner, Abiodun Ajisafe, underscored the importance of early intervention in the sphere of financial education, as it is widely recognised by the government of Nigeria and the research community as easier to instil the right values, attitudes and perceptions among young people than to change the habits and perceptions of older people. He stressed that the programme is in line with the National Financial Literacy Framework and will contribute to the availability of role models and mentors for the youth to provide guidance on money management and navigation through the complexities of the financial sector.