• Ganduje vows to fight opposition’s ‘money bags’ with ‘strategy bags’ National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi Adamu, yesterday, explained why the July 16, 2022 Osun governorship election is a must win for the party. Speaking during the launch of the APC campaign council for the Osun governorship poll at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja, he said the outcome has a direct bearing on the fortunes of the party’s presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He urged the 86-member council to unleash the arsenal at its disposal to win the state for the party. He said the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other opposition political parties must not be allowed a breathing space during the election. Adamu said: “We are going there to win, by the grace of God. The plan is to win. The ability to execute the plan depends on the leadership that this council is going to provide in the campaign efforts. “I urge you to leave no stone unturned. I urge you to go there and do whatever is doable within the laws of Nigeria and our electoral laws. “My tolerance level, and this national working committee’s level for failure, is really really zero. Go down the trenches and bring that victory we want. “Nobody should come back to us crying. Failure is not our, by the grace of God. Whatever it takes, within the laws of the land, I said go for it. Win the election. We have no apologies whatsoever for this posture. “We must show our adversaries in the strongest possible way that we are in control. No apologies to anybody. We are the party in government. We are the party ruling the country today. No apologies to anybody! Adamu added: “The reality is that Nigerians chose APC, and we’ll do everything we can to retain this position of envy.”
 Co-chairman of the campaign council, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State pledged to reconcile aggrieved members of the party in Osun before the conduct of the poll. He assured that Governor Gboyega Oyetola would unfailingly emerge victorious in the first ballot. He said: “I assure you, this election will be conclusively conclusive. I believe the stakeholders in Osun State will add value to their preparedness and ensure that the 30 local councils have all prepared. “We are told that we are fighting an opposition with moneybags. But we want to assure you that we are coming with strategy bags.”