Indian High Commission in conjunction with Indian Cultural Association, Lagos, will tomorrow, put up a Yoga Session to educate the people through practical demonstration of various postures and benefits of Yoga in commemoration of the 2022 International Yoga Day. Billed to take place at the High Commission’s premesses, this year’s celebrations would boost the information and knowledge levels of people, paving way for them to adopt Yoga in their daily life for maximium benefits. According to the statement by the President, Indian Cultural Association, Chief Sanjay Jain, and made avialable to The Guardian, the International Yoga Day aims at raising awareness on the benefits of practicing yoga as declared by the United Nations’ (UN) resolution of 2014. He noted that the draft resolution, which proclaimed June 21, as the International Day of Yoga, was proposed by India and endorsed by 175 member states, saying that this has been in practice for the past seven years in Lagos. Chief Jain said, “Yoga is an ancient physical, mental and spiritual practice that originated in India. The word ‘yoga’ derives from Sanskrit and means to join or to unite, symbolising the union of body and consciousness. Today, it is practiced in various forms around the world and continues to grow in popularity.” Speaking on the importance of Yoga to the body, he said, “It enhances vitality, focus, memory and productivity. It stabilises the body, mind and emotions.” It strengthens and stabilises the spine and can relieve back pain, stress, anxiety and tension. Can relieve one from chronic ailments and improves overall health. It also enhances teamwork, communication, imparts a lasting sense of joy, peace and fulfilment. “Just five minutes a day can transform your life. Whether you’re seeking health and joy or peace and love, whether it’s success in the world or inner exploration you’re striving for. These simple practices are designed to help you cut through the struggle and walk through life with ease.”