The outcome of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election in Delta State is yet to sit with some contestants and members of the party who are yet to come to terms with the reality. Besides, the emergence of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate to the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has added a new dimension to the unfolding drama.
 
Across the state, there are still grievances over the emergence of the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, as the governorship candidate, though the choice appears to have widespread acceptance. An example is a suit challenging Oborevwori’s qualification for the contest before the Federal High Court in Abuja.
 
On the eve of the primary election in Asaba by elected ad-hoc delegates, one of the frontrunners in the race, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, had opted out, citing intimidation and threat to his life. He later dumped the party and joined the Social Democratic Party (SDP), where he picked the governorship ticket.  The All Progressives Congress (APC’s) attempt to sweep PDP off Government House, Asaba may have started, but more work needs to be done to realise that ambition in a state that has been predominantly PDP since 1999.  The reception organised by the PDP for Okowa on arrival from Abuja, attended by the governor’s wife, Edith; Deputy Governor, Kingsley Otuaro; Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu; Oborevwori; state PDP Chairman, Kingsley Esiso, saw supporters throng the Asaba airport as early as 8 am, but the aircraft conveying Okowa and his entourage did not touch down until hours later.
  
Okowa, while addressing a large crowd of supporters who thronged The Cenotaph to welcome him after his emergence as vice presidential candidate of the PDP, said the Atiku-Okowa ticket would give Nigerians victory over “insensitive and careless administration,” and renewed hope for greatness.  Certainly, it is going to be a keen contest next year in Delta State, unlike in the recent past, where the race was mainly within the ruling PDP.