The Corps members of Charity CDS group, Alimosho Local Government, Lagos, recently organised an inter-school quiz, debate and spelling bee competition to commemorate this year’s children’s day for students of select secondary schools in Alimosho. The program, which they said was a major project, served as their Community Development Service (CDS), assignment to the community. The competition was attended by several NYSC officials including the Zonal inspector (Ikeja 1), Nonye Ufochukwu; Olawoye Abiodun who represented the assistant Director, CDS; Alimosho LGI, Mrs. Ayoola Hamzat, Charity CDS Group coordinator, Mrs Nwobosi and the general coordinator for the CDS groups, Mrs. Muoghalu amongst others. The event also attracted the sponsorship of a Lagos State House of Representative contestant under the APC, Muideen Adebowale; MTN and Premium Graphics. It was an unveiling of geniuses, as students from different schools showcased their oratory gifts in the inter-school debate, quiz, and spelling bee competitions. Speaking, the CDS Group President, Favour Kelechi Okoh, expressed her profound gratitude to all whilst emphasing the importance and power of education to every individual. She urged the students to take their academics seriously. For the debate competition, Alimosho Senior Grammar School (Anifowose Mary and Ezechukwu Chidinma) came first, while Ijegun Senior Comprehensive (Yusuf Hamidat and Joseph Beatrice) and Egan Senior High School (Oke Rebecca and Daniel Freedom) came second and third place respectively. For the quiz competition, Do-est-dot International School (Adesina Bethel) made sure to set the pace by coming first while Egan Senior High school (Afolabi Samuel) and Ijegun Senior High school (Nwachukwu Ebube) came second and third respectively. The spelling bee, which served as the concluding event of the day saw Ijegun Senior High school (Yekini Rokeeb) coming first place while Government Technical School, Ikotun came second (Chike Elijah) and Great Honey Best Academy (Bebetuakumor Lucky) took third place. The corpers did not forget to leave a lasting imprint on the young ones as there was a self-discovery discovery speech about the discovery of gifts and talent presented by a former corp member, Ubah Tochuwku.