Download logo The Department of Water and Sanitation in the Western Cape remains committed to foster intergovernmental relations through enhancing collaborative work with all spheres of government. This is done as a way to improve and enhance the delivery of water and sanitation services in the province. This was evident during a two- day Water Care Forum from 09-10 June 2022 initiated by the Department which was held at Mossel Bay.  Addressing the forum where discussions on how to improve the management of drinking water and wastewater treatment, the Department’s Provincial Head Zanele Bila-Mupariwa implored upon the officials who were in attendance of the significance of such collaborations, saying that working together will help improve the lives of disadvantaged communities. “When the Water Care Forum was established in 2019, it was with the aim of creating and strengthening capacity amongst the municipalities to improve overall water quality management in the Western Cape Province. This year’s Forum focuses on the recent Green Drop report and Blue Drop progress report and ways on how to improve drinking and wastewater quality by struggling municipalities,” said BilaMupariwa. She took the opportunity to congratulate two Grade 10 learners, Unam Halam (16) and Faith Claasen (17) from Heatherlands High School in George who recently won the South African Youth Water Prize national competition which was held in Gauteng. “The learners came up with an innovating concept on to address water leaks. They will also represent South Africa at the Stockholm Junior Water Prize in August this year. If they can reach such milestones at a young age, as government, at all spheres, we really must do our best that we do not fail them and the communities they represent,” she added. The next Water Care Forum will take place in June 2023, where members will give progress on the work done to improve the operations and maintenance of water and wastewater infrastructure. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Department of Water and Sanitation, Republic of South Africa.