Nigeria LNG in partnership with Journalism clinic has trained journalists and communicators across the country on the use of new digital tools in mobile and visual storytelling that drives positive change in the society. The 2022 edition of the #NLNGChangeYourStory programme had the participants learn how to shoot and edit high-quality video with smartphones, create stories at speed that grab attention online and on social media, as well as explore mobile-friendly story forms and useful digital tools that make their job easier and raise their professional profile. The Media Trainer, Dan Mason said the three-day practical training will help journalists and communicators master new digital skills and show them how to approach storytelling from a different angle that drives positive change. He said with new digital skills, the audience would want to subscribe to the news channels to get more value, greater access, understanding and variety of stories and events. “Even though Nigeria’s solution is different from every other country, the undoubted thing that has been found is the total focus on the audience, individuals and how to make them part of the network. “Statistics show that people still respect traditional mainstream journalists, but the younger demographics respect influencers who know how to network. “Journalists are influencers because that is their job. You need to go on social media platforms and start building that network to suit your beats. “Visual media is important to get your story across to your audition through social media platforms. You need to build your own influence and networks as the world has moved digital,” he added. Mason, however, urged the participants to build their profile on social media as a communication professional at the heart of the network, noting that it is very important that people know them. Meanwhile, participants expressed gratitude to the organisers of the programme, stating that the training has helped them to develop their capacity in reporting their stories digitally. One of the participants, Obas Esiedesa, said he has learnt how to report energy stories visually, using the new digital tools to get people’s attention. Another participant, Yinka Olatunbosun, said with the knowledge of the new digital tools, it will enable her to tell stories for the different audiences, especially the young generation that are digital, as well as help curb the spread of fake news circulating online.