 Justin Bieber accepts the Artist of the Year award onstage during the 2021 MTV Video Music Awards at Barclays Center on September 12, 2021, in the Brooklyn borough of New York City.<br />BENNETT RAGLIN / GETTY IMAGES Justin Bieber has revealed that he has facial paralysis (Ramsay Hunt syndrome ), explaining his medical condition to be the reason for his cancelled tour. The 28-year-old pop star took to his Instagram to share a video clarifying the diagnosis which is a drawback of shingles that can lead to facial paralysis. According to the Mayo Clinic, the hearing loss and facial paralysis related to Ramsay Hunt syndrome are temporary, nevertheless, can come to be permanent. Bieber‘s right eye was incapable of blinking and the right side of his face did not change positions as he began the video by saying, “Hey everyone Justin here, I wanted to update you guys on what’s been going on. Obviously, as you can probably see from my face. I have this syndrome called Ramsay Hunt syndrome and it is from this virus that attacks the nerves in my ear and my facial nerves and has caused my face to have paralysis.” Justin later updated his Instagram Story where he wrote, “Been getting progressively harder to eat which has been extremely frustrating, please pray for me [crying emoji].” Bieber had confirmed that he was postponing the remaining shows of his seven-leg, 130-date Justice World Tour due to non-Covid related illness.’ “Can’t believe I’m saying this. I’ve done everything to get better but my sickness is getting worse,” the “What Do You Mean?” singer noted. He added, “My heart breaks that I will have to postpone these next few shows (doctors orders). To all my people I love you so much and I’m gonna rest and get better.” In the clip posted, Justin revealed the devastating outcomes of his diagnosis as he showed how his eye wasn’t flickering, can’t smile, and his nostril did not change positions all on the right side of his face. He explained, “So there is full paralysis on this side of my face. So for those who are frustrated by my cancellations of the next shows, I’m just physically obviously not capable of doing them. This is pretty serious as you can see.” 