• INEC deploys four national commissioners, eight RECs for polls
• APC revolution started by Buhari must continue, Tinubu tells Ekiti electorate The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Usman Alkali Baba, has said that  deployment of security agencies in Ekiti State was not intended to scare voters and cause apathy on election day. He said that the deployment was geared towards protecting the sanctity of the ballots and making the outcome of the governorship election credible and acceptable to all stakeholders. The IGP, while speaking in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, during a meeting organised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with major stakeholders in the coming governorship polls in the state, said no individual with invidious and parochial interest would be allowed to vitiate the outcome of the election through violence, vote-buying and other actions that can taint the credibility of the election. RELATEDLY, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has said that four national commissioners and eight Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) have been deployed to ensure conduct of credible election. He appealed to participants to eschew violence and allow the votes of the people to count. IN another development, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 election, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday, said the party had started a revolution in Nigeria since 2015 by sweeping away the PDP. Tinubu added that the revolution pioneered by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 and, which was sustained in 2019, should be allowed to reach an enviable height by voting for APC in all elections. He stated this in Ado-Ekiti at a mega rally organised to drum support for the APC governorship candidate, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, on June 18, 2022. In their submission, Governors Akeredolu, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and his Kebbi counterpart, Abubakar Bagudu, described Oyebanji as the best man to continue with the purposeful leadership laid by Governor Kayode Fayemi. Also, National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, while presenting the flag to the candidate, expressed optimism that Oyebanji would be elected as the next governor to succeed Fayemi, who he said, had done wonderfully well in the last four years.