Mountain of Fire and Miracles FC Head Coach, Ikechukwu Christian, has expressed optimism that the Lagos darling team will eventually escape relegation at the end of the 2021/22 season. The Olukoya Boys were languishing at the bottom of the table from the beginning of the campaign before Coach Christian was brought in on a rescue mission. Speaking to The Guardian, yesterday, Coach Christian said the players have resolved to put in place whatever it takes to ensure that the only club representing Lagos State remains in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). “We have 100 per cent chance of coming out of regulation and remaining in the top flight premier league for next season. The good thing is that we have two home games unlike some teams that are also battling for survival with us with only one home fixture. “All we need to do now is to try and work harder and with determination to ensure that we win our two home games and not lose points in the two away fixtures clear our deficit. I believe it is very possible to achieve this task, as the league begins to round off. “I am happy with the attitude of the players in camp and this is because of their commitment. This is why I said we have 100 per cent chance to remain in the premier league,” he said. Christian believes the club’s banishment to Ijebu Ode has been a blessing in disguise, saying the team plays better in the Jide Dina Stadium’s Astroturf. “When I came on board, I noticed that anytime we go out to play on Astroturf, the players do better as against the natural grass. That was why they found it difficult to play at the Teslim Balogun Stadium pitch. Our banishment to Ijebu Ode is a blessing in disguise because we are familiar with the terrain having played some pre-season games there. “Let me at this juncture thank Dr. Daniel Olukoya for his immense financial and spiritual support to the club. Without him, the club would have failed woefully. Our G.O. is not a failure and even MFM worldwide management have been awesome and even our director, Damilare Ezekiel Orimoloye, deserves a lot of commendation,” he stated.