TULCAN Energy Resources has given reason for investing in women football. According to the firm, it is aimed at supporting the development of the girl child in Nigeria. Speaking in his Lagos office on Monday when officials of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) paid him a courtesy visit, Tulcan Energy Resources’ Chief Executive Officer, Tayo Adiatu, said the company would continue to sponsor the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) Super Six for as long as they exist, adding, “All over the world, football is like a religion, but you discover that male football has gained a lot of momentum than women football, maybe because women football arrived much later. We track this back to Nigeria where only men’s football enjoy all the top sponsorship compared to the women’s.” Expressing his company’s excitement to receive NWFL Chairperson, Aisha Falode and her team members to their office, he said:  “I congratulate you for a very successful Super Six, and not just that, the quality of branding was second to none at the stadium, the calibre of presentation by the teams, the organisation, the stadium, the fans, facilities, officials and the media that covered the event were of international standard. It was a wake up call. “The tournament became bigger than what we expected in the sense that the women’s football  league despite it’s recognition in Nigeria, has not benefitted from the support of the populace at large. However, when the opportunity was actually presented to us to sponsor the Super Six, we saw it as a huge opportunity to promote the female gender and women sports. We are happy about the successes of the Super Six. I hope the subsequent editions will produce more successes under Tulcan Energy Resources support.” The Tulcan Energy Resources boss noted, “Success, they say, is a journey and when you don’t start, you don’t complete.”We have started with the sponsorship of the NWFL Premiership Super Six, we won’t abandon it.” Earlier, Falode said the NWFL team came to pay Tulcan Energy Resources CEO and other management team members a thank you visit for making the 2021/2022 Super Six a huge success.  “We were happy to have the resources needed, the corporate support and funding to host a very successful Super Six, first time in the history of women’s football in Nigeria,” she added. 