•  Say it encourages traffic robbery, task contractor on quick delivery  
• FG pleads for patience It was hellish on Monday night for motorists plying Oworonshoki-7UP section of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway as they spent between one and two hours within 100 metre radius on traffic due to ongoing construction along the axis.
    
For over six months, motorists who are out-bound Lagos are made to face hard time because Hitech Construction Company, the subcontractor handling the project on behalf of the Dangote Group, opted for night construction ostensibly to ease traffic. Also notebooks and menstrual monitoring cards donated by Lola Cater for the Needy Foundation, one of the events partner was also given to the teenage girls.
   
While the decision to work at night makes some sense, motorists, especially those travelling outside Lagos, said they are not reaping the benefits. They lament that there is no consideration for alternatives for a road, whose traffic load is quite high.  “The worst is that the contractor has been at that spot for three months without much work, while hoodlums have their field day. This cannot happen in other climes,” he fumed.
  
Also, commenting, a civil engineer and former Chairman of Apapa Branch of Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Dr. Ombugadu Garba said the contractor should have provided measures to take care of the traffic envisaged in such a busy road like Lagos –Ibadan Expressway  that has large traffic load.
  
While applauding the firm for adopting night construction, he said adequate measures should be put in place to reduce the rate of traffic on the road.
 
He said: “ When you are doing that kind of construction, you should know that any obstruction will have a regimental effect when it comes to traffic flow. They are supposed to provide an alternative, while that construction is going on.
 
“If it is not possible then they must mark a place dedicated where vehicles would pass irrespective of whether they are doing construction or not, then they need to send their men that will adequately provide for traffic guides. In Lagos roads that are supposed to have three lanes, once you narrow to two lanes, it will still have an effect. If you have a proper plan for traffic flow, it will reduce the rate of traffic, but I do not think they are giving it adequate attention.”
     
But a senior official of the firm told The Guardian that the disruption of traffic on the road has got nothing to do with the construction work, but it was the unruly behaviour of drivers themselves.
 
He said the decision to start from 10:00pm and finish at  about 4 or  5:00am in the morning was to avoid  disruption to traffic. Also, the Federal Controller of Works, Lagos, Mr. Olukayode Popoola, who is supervising the project, appealed for more patience, stressing that the project will soon be completed because it will soon be linked to the former toll gate, which is the end for that section, while section two from Cele   will soon be completed.
 
He stressed that there’s no place to put the diversion and they are just managing it. They will soon get out of that place.
   
“I want to encourage motorists to please bear with us as the contractor has been working hard and will soon cross over that place. 