Women in Energy Network (WIEN), the platform providing convergence for professional women playing in the energy industry, will, on June 25, unveil its flagship Supernova Girl Scholarship Programme and Science Fair. The programme scheduled for the Bille community in Rivers State is sequel to virtual launch of the Supernova Girl initiative, which targets early grooming of girls in senior primary schools, junior and senior secondary schools into taking careers in science and technology related disciplines. The fair promises to be a grand inspiration programme for girl children with keen interests in studying mathematics and science subjects, and WIEN comes with strong motivational incentives that include scholarships, dressings, books and other instructional materials. According to the President of WIEN, Mrs. Funmi Ogbue, scholarships will be awarded to is students selected through written exams and science experiments across the three cadres. School uniforms, school sandals, bags, and textbooks will be distributed to about 467 students in the Bille community. WIEN is confident that early contact with the target group will indeed spark off a desire and an ambition of the girl child to study the sciences and ultimately pursue engineering as a profession and get them ready for a career in the energy sector. Mrs Ogbue added that the overarching objective of the program is to ignite passion for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in young girls and to showcase the socio-economic value and application of STEM in our everyday life. Spokesman of WIEN, Charlotte Essiet, explained that members of WIEN will during the event, also host an interactive sensitization session with parents, guardians and teachers to inspire positive attitude and support for females in the pursuit of STEM. She added that the Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), which also supports the event as its members, will guide the pupils through science laboratory experiments. 