The Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria (ADSN) has urged Nigerians to participate actively in the forthcoming general election to ensure good leaders are elected into offices. The group encouraged Muslims to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) to be eligible to vote during the 2023 elections.
The call was made during a media briefing to herald activities marking the society’s 10th Triennial National Conference in Lagos. The President , Ansar-Ud-Deen, Aare AbdulRafiu Ademola Sanni, said the theme of this year’s conference ‘Parenting and psychosocial effects of immorality, insecurity and economic challenges to nationhood’ would address the aggravated challenges of the family unit and parenting and its wider ramifications on nationhood. The activities lined up for the three days event are as follows: A courtesy call to eminent members of the society, including the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The formal opening ceremony will hold today, June 24, 2022, at Yard 158 Event Centre, Oregun. Special Jumat Service at Lagos State Secretariat Mosque, Alausa and thanksgiving service at Yard 158 Event Centre by 3:00pm. Conference session (reports, presentation, discussion and elections on Saturday, June 25, 2022, at Grandeur Event Centre, Billings Way, Ikeja. 10:00am and Merit Award ceremony will be held on June 26, 2022. Thereafter, there will be a swearing-in ceremony for newly elected officers. He mentioned some major milestones the society achieved in the past three years, stating that Summit University, Offa, now has an operational licence as a degree awarding tertiary institution, with more than 10 programmes on offer, with full accreditation status. “ This was made possible through the concerted efforts of the proprietor, Board of Trustees, Governing Council and University Management. I’m also glad to inform you that we recently appointed the second substantive Vice Chancellor for the institution and I dare say, he’s hit the ground running in managing the human material resources of the institution. As the proprietor, we will keep doing our part of the bargain by attracting strategic infrastructure, endowments, scholarships and allied opportunities that will improve the staff and student strength of the school. This will, in turn, reflect in the service delivery, cooperate social responsibility and national development output of the school.” He said that social media has done a lot of damage to the youth due to parents’ negligence, although providers of these services are putting in place measures, which parents can use to monitor their children’s activities on social media. Sanni noted that the major cause of the security challenges in the country is corruption and the principal responsibility of any government is to secure life and properties of citizens. “First I must say that the governments are not doing enough in respect of the security of the nation. Bane of all this problem is The Chief Missionary, Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdulrahman Ahmad, said the contributions of  Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria to Nigeria’s education system cannot be overemphasised as the society has produced prominent people in the society. 