 Funke Akindele and JJC Skillz Movie producer JJC Skillz has revealed that he and his wife Funke Akindele have been separated. He made this announcement in an Instagram post on Thursday morning, admitting that their marriage has been having issues for over two years.   A post shared by Mr Bello (@jjcskillz) Real name Abul Bello, JJC Skillz confirmed that the “Jenifa” actress had asked him to leave her house and refused to speak with him. He noted that their marriage was beyond repair, and he is seeking ways for them to co-parent and manage their joint business. He wrote, “Dear friends and family I need to let you know that Funke and I have separated. While it lasted we shared a lot of things together and have created 2 beautiful children. The last two years have been extremely difficult. The last two years have been extremely difficult for us. I know I have tried my best fix things but I believe it is beyond repair now. 3 months ago and at Funkes insistence.” “I moved out of the house and apart from AMVCA have not been able to get Funke to sit down in an amicable matter to discuss the future of our relationship. I’m making this announcement so that the public is clear that we both are pursuing separate lives. We still have issues that need to be addressed such as custody and wellbeing of our children which is paramount as well as business interest which need to be disentangled but I have no doubt that these will be resolved one way or the other.” Rumours that the couple’s marriage was on the rocks hit the media in April. At the time JJC Skillz took to Instagram to show support for his wife, sharing a photo of their family, which he captioned” “The only rock that stays steady and the only institution I know that works is marriage.” “London is cool, but I’m missing home @funkejenifaakindele my love have loads of fun with the children. See you soon at home.” On Father’s Day, the actress shared photographs JJC took with his children with the caption, “Happy Father’s Day darling!!! Thank you so much for being a wonderful and caring father. We love you God bless you more Baba Ibeji of life!”