Vumile Msweli is the Chief Executive Officer of Hesed Consulting, a coaching and consulting firm that specialises in commerce acceleration, career coaching, women empowerment, facilitation and training. The organsation currently has presence in Nigeria, South Africa, Botswana and Rwanda, with affiliates in Namibia, Ghana and Uganda. Vumile previously worked for reputable multi-national institutions, including Barclays, Investec, Nedbank, First National Bank and Vodafone. An Operations, Finance and Strategy executive with experience in both the telecommunications and finance sectors, she has successfully led global teams in Africa (Nigeria, Kenya, Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia, Lesotho, Ghana, Tanzania; Mozambique and South Africa); and Europe (Scotland, Isle of Man and England). As a coach, she has carved a niche for herself in career coaching while also servicing clients in executive, financial, speaking and mentoring coaching. She is also the host of Vumi and Veuve Host Women In Commerce, a career columnist in a leading national newspaper and a career radio host in two radio stations. With degrees from two universities in South Africa, she has an MBA from the University of London and an ongoing Doctorate Applied Leadership from the UGSM, Switzerland. In this interview with TOBI AWODIPE, she spoke on the importance of career and life coaching for women, breaking glass cliffs and deploying the rule of three in businesses amongst other issues. You’ve had an interesting career; please take us through your journey so far?
My career journey began in banking from the contact centre and quickly accelerated to an executive role. My journey has been underpinned by education; education has been, for me, the key to the world. I completed my matric at St. Mary’s DSG, did a Bachelor of Accounting Sciences from the University of Pretoria and got a Bachelor of Commerce Financial Planning Honours. I then did my Masters in Business Administration at the University of London, my Executive Education at New York University, my Higher Education Teaching certificate at Harvard University and I am currently studying my Doctorate in Coaching at Switzerland’s Monarch University. I have spent my career working in the banking and telecommunications sectors and this afforded me the opportunity to work in incredible places such as Singapore, Germany, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria and South Africa. I always suspected that I would be an entrepreneur, which is how I founded Hesed Consulting, a pan-African coaching and recruitment firm. You’re also a life and transformational coach among others, what informed your decision to take on these roles?
Becoming a career coach was borne out of my frustration in my corporate career. I was a young executive facing challenges and wanted a coach who looked like me and understood my struggles. Someone who not only empathised but understood what it was like to be an African female pursuing excellence, whilst climbing the corporate ladder. I identified gaps in myself, and I knew coaching could help close those gaps. A career coach is an expert who has hundreds of hours aiding people to achieve their career goals and gain clarity on their career journey by equipping them with skills that help them overcome obstacles and succeed in their work. So, that is the service I have chosen to dedicate my time to. I support people in their career journey, overcoming obstacles, and having work that fulfills them. As the head of Hesed Consulting, how are you merging all the things you do successfully?
Hesed Consulting is the channel that enables me to fulfill my life’s calling; to help people have successful and fulfilling careers. We are a pan-African organisation that facilitates the attraction of human capital through recruitment as well as growing and retaining talent through coaching. It keeps me busy, but I truly believe in work-life fluidity, which means I invest in my team, take time to cultivate relationships with my family and friends and get very comfortable on my knees, seeking God for His Will for my life. There are so many coaches and coaching sessions targeted at women these days. In your opinion, how impactful is this for women?
I believe that a coach is a powerful weapon for women’s careers and life. I personally have three coaches and they have proven invaluable in my growth, both personally and professionally. Unlike a sponsor or mentor, a coach ordinarily has no relationship with you prior to you seeking out their professional services. They are an objective expert in their field who aid people in achieving their goals through psychological techniques, inner reflection and training. So, a coach has often helped many people in a specific industry or career level, and unlike a mentor, doesn’t solely draw on their experience. A coach, in essence, allows for the sharing of best practices with you as a client and helps you achieve a set goal through a series of coaching sessions. The theme of this year’s Women’s Month was, Break The Bias, how would you say you are exemplifying this through your work?
In celebrating International Women’s month and reflecting on #BreakingTheBias as a career coach, I naturally consider the workplace. I think of biases like female bosses are terrible or that women have glass ceilings and, at times, even glass cliffs. The use of the phrase ‘she is shattering the glass ceiling’ is a popular term used to describe the pioneering of women and minorities into spheres they historically could not engage in. However, there is now a new phenomenon called glass cliffs. Glass Cliffs are when women are brought in to save the day when their predecessors have led organisations to dire situations. To break these biases is to make it commonplace to have women in the C-suite, in leadership and executive roles. To break these is for it to be normal to have a board or the African or European Union presidents be predominantly female. So that when we see women in positions of power, we don’t arch our eyebrows in surprise or clap in celebration; it’s another Tuesday because women belong in those seats as much as their male counterparts. That is the reality of our business; our entire board consists of African women from all over the world who help drive African women to shatter glass ceilings and cliffs in whatever career realm they find themselves in. Having successfully led global teams in Africa and Europe, how would you say we could accelerate and grow women-led SMEs?
I think it’s by creating a culture of leaving the door open in every room you enter to make it easier for other women to come in after you. In essence, it is cultivating a culture of creating opportunities for other women. By intentionally using products and services from women-led SMEs, we help create sustainability for that entrepreneur and increase the opportunities for scalability. Why are women underrepresented in key leadership positions and how can we change this?
Women historically were not economically liberated and allowed to engage in leadership. This legacy is what results in the disproportionate numbers between men and women at various levels. To change this, we will have to give women the same access, support and privileges that men have enjoyed to get to leadership roles. To counter this historical advantage bestowed to men, women will need sponsors, mentorship, advocates, coaches and more opportunities that take into account the unique challenges that women face like maternity leave and family responsibilities such as being wives and mothers. As someone experienced in finances across Africa, what would you say are some of the key issues start-ups face, especially in Nigeria?
Start-ups across the continent have the biggest challenge with access; access to opportunities, finances and investors. Access to markets that can help scale small businesses and access to experts, information and education to help fast track their growth. The financial institutions we have tend to be archaic in their approach, using models not well suited to the African terrain for start-ups who very rarely have the collateral required to access financing. Furthermore, most entrepreneurs are busy trying to establish their businesses and don’t focus on acquiring financial literacy. What solutions would you proffer to these problems?
I think creating financial models and products that suit the uniquely African challenges, which the average business will be able to access. This should be underpinned by financial education and literacy. What five key takeaways would you give a female founder?
The rule of three; however long you think it will take, multiply it by three, how much you think you are going to need, multiply it by three, how many people in your network that you think you need, multiply it by three. So, in essence, think bigger, increase your capacity for patience, stay focused and hold on to your vision even though it may tarry. Tell us something you do/did that has influenced your career positively today?
I think getting coaches to help me grow in my career set me apart from my competitors. I think investing in coaching helped me to better articulate my ideas and better position myself. I also think intentionally giving myself exposure through education and travel has served me in good stead enabling me to work all over the world and thus gather global best practices. Going beyond the usual rhetoric, how can we truly empower today’s woman so she can compete internationally?
To be successful globally, you must give yourself exposure to the world. The world is bigger than your city, country and continent. You are competing with other women sitting in Kuala Lumpur, Toronto, Sao Paulo, Mombasa, Durban… what you bring to the table must have local relevance, but be able to impact the international arena. Knowing how to effectively position yourself and articulate the value you bring whilst respecting the nuances of your diversity will empower you to be globally competitive. Doing business across different African countries isn’t without its challenges, how are you surmounting these issues?
The biggest misconception is that Africa is the same; we may have the same hue, but are far from homogenous. Walking into a meeting in Lagos versus Kigali versus Gaborone is fundamentally different. I tend to immerse myself in the culture, studying the people, understanding the value system, working with local experts to help guide me and then investing in building those relationships. I like to be clear in the value I can add and the unique service I bring as a career coach and recruiter. What are five little known facts about you?
I have travelled to over 55 countries in the world. I tasted ‘dodo’ for the first time in my twenties. I am doing my doctorate in applied leadership and coaching. My absolute favourite colour is yellow; it just feels like sunshine and happiness to me. I find my peace in my village; something about the rolling green hills gorgeous rivers allows me to connect with God. How do you de-stress and unwind from your busy schedule?
I thoroughly enjoy travelling to explore the world; something about immersing myself in a new world piques my curiosity and makes me feel like a child once again. I thoroughly enjoy the simple pleasure of playing with my dog. I also find journaling a good way to release the pressure, fear and anxiety. I also find playing with adult colouring-in books help me to decompress. What changes would you like to see happen for women if you could make them?
I would love to be able to acquire for women sponsors and advocates for their careers than their male counterparts access with such ease. This, I think, is a simple change that could catapult the careers of women across industries and help close the gender gap. You seem to have many friends in Nigeria, how’s your personal relationship with Nigerians and the Nigeria-South Africa relationship in general?
I recall studying in Ghana and coming to visit Nigeria for the first time; it began a love affair that has stood the test of time. Nigeria is filled with African excellence, ambitious, hardworking people who strive to embody the African dream. I admire the fast-paced and energetic can-do attitude of Lagosians and have seen this city as the Mecca for my own ambition, refuelling my passion and drive. South Africa and Nigeria have the biggest economies in Africa, but I think both countries are yet to fully step into their true leadership roles in the continent. 