The Nigeria Electric Regulatory Commission (NERC) has stated it plans to ensure power supply hits 5000 megawatts in July, just as the first phase of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) is set to commence by the end of August 2022. The Chairman, NERC, Sanusi Garba, said Nigerians would begin to see an improvement in power supply as investments and steps have been put in place to achieve the set target. The Chairman at a media briefing in Lagos, said all its engagement with the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), has confirmed that the transmission company has the capacity to transmit 5000 megawatts, saying that the Commission has a renewed vigour to address commercial issues mitigating the flow of electricity. In his words: “For Nigerians to have 5000 megawatts, there must be a commitment to buy 5000 megawatt. This is the first time we will have DisCos’ commitment to buy 5000 megawatts and TCN will be committed to delivering the 5000 megawatts. We have also identified partners for the gas contract to deliver the 5000 megawatts. It has not happened before.” He also stated that plans are ongoing to install four million meters under the first phase of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) by the end of August 2022. Meanwhile, the Commissioner, Finance and Management, Rogers Shatti, said the procurement process of the four million metres started earlier in 2022 with about 45 local meter manufacturers submitting bids, pointing out that the Commission is conducting a review to establish the capacities of the local meter manufacturers. “From our experience, under the phase NNMP zero, we noticed some of the manufacturers have inflated or wrong capacities, but this time around, we want to ensure that any manufacturer who says he can do x number of meters in a year, we have to be sure that he can actually do that before allocations are being made. “It is expected that the successful bids will begin to bring in CKDs and SKDs to produce meters for Nigerians. So we are looking at the end of August to begin to see meters from our local manufacturers going to the distribution companies and of course to consumers,” he said. The Commissioner, Legal Licensing and Compliance, Dafe Akpeneye, said discussions are ongoing with the National Assembly to introduce a new Electricity Act, saying that the Act would combat offenses of theft and non-compliance. He also added that the Act would attract investment into the Nigerian power sector. “The Electricity Act is a proper legal framework that will address breaches in the sector while ensuring that there is a robust platform in place to attract investment into the sector.