• Airlift from Jigawa, Kaduna relocated to Kano over security concerns
The Saudi Arabia government has mandated intending pilgrims travelling to the kingdom for the 2022 Hajj to declare their monkeypox infection status. In the new health protocol issued by the Saudi ministry of health, intending pilgrims must complete the monkeypox declaration form 24 hours prior to their departure. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has activated its emergency operations centre on monkeypox after it confirmed 21 cases with one death in nine states and the Federal Capital Territory in May, 2022. A circular issued by the Royal Consulate General of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Kano, yesterday, directed the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) to ensure pilgrims comply strictly with the requirement. According to the circular, a pilgrim must declare that he or she has not come in contact with confirmed or suspected monkeypox cases in the 21 days preceding the date on the health declaration form and does not have symptoms or signs compatible with monkeypox. This came as National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) disclosed that airlift of pilgrims from Kaduna and Jigawa states has been relocated to the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, due to security concerns. MEANWHILE, no fewer than 430 intending pilgrims from Lagos State have landed safely in Madinah, Saudi Arabia, to perform the Hajj. They left Nigeria 11.45 p.m., Tuesday, through the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), aboard Flynas XY 5010, a Saudi Arabia-based airline. The first batch comprised 170 male and 260 females. Speaking with the media on his impression about the inaugural flight, being his first experience, the Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Anofiu Olanrewaju Elegushi, expressed gratitude to Allah, that after a two-year break, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, international pilgrims, once again, have the privilege of performing the exercise. He urged the pilgrims to be good ambassadors of Lagos State and Nigeria, and be law abiding. Also, the South West Commissioner of NAHCON, Alhaja Basirat Akintunde, expressed joy over the successful airlift, noting that the few challenges encountered were surmounted. Special Adviser to the Governor on Islamic Matters, Ahmad Abdullahi Jebe, said the state put everything in place to ensure the comfort of the pilgrims. Board Chairman, Shakiru Ayinde Gafar (Mofesaye), also assured that the pilgrims had been given adequate information on dos and don’ts of the journey. 