• YCE, ARG, and Middle Belt Forum urge Tinubu to embrace other aspirants
• Strategy, not money gave Tinubu ticket, says Momodu After months of intrigues, the life ambition of former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, showed signs of ultimate realisation, as he clinched the Presidential ticket of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC).  President Buhari, in his remarks, shortly before balloting started, said the governing party has shown Nigerians that it is committed to their well being, stressing that his administration is determined to uphold the tenets of democracy.
   
The twice-postponed special convention came at a huge cost to the country, given that the civil servants could not access their offices for three days due to the security cordon thrown across the major access roads surrounding the Eagle Square venue of the presidential nomination process.
  
In his remarks after the chairman of APC Election Managing Committee and Governor of Kebbi State, Senator Atiku Bagudu announced him as the winner, Tinubu declared: “I am a thinker and a doer,” even as he promised to unite the country.  MEANWHILE some Southwest socio-political organisations, Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) and Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), yesterday, urged Bola Tinubu, to have a large heart and embrace other aspirants who slugged it with him at the primary. The two groups admonished Tinubu not to allow naysayers to push him to embark on a vengeful or vendetta mission or commit the error of perceiving any of his co-contestants as enemies, saying, “The APC remains one big family despite the contest. The bigger event is how to retain power for the party in 2023.” In a related development, the erstwhile leader of Igbo Think Tank group, Aka Ikenga, Goody Uwazurike, said the 2023 contest is going to be a battle of personality between candidates of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who has been in active politics for over 30 years and Tinubu, whose life ambition is to rule Nigeria. Uwazurike, however, said Mr. Peter Obi, who represents the Southeast geopolitical zone on the platform of Labour Party (LP) for the 2023 presidential election could still pull a surprise. Speaking in separate telephone conversations with The Guardian, yesterday, General Secretary of YCE, Dr Kunle Olajide said Tinubu’s victory at the primary was exciting and it shows the maturity displayed by the leadership of APC, which respected the zoning agreement. He, however, urged the national leader not to make the mistake of perceiving anyone as an enemy but to begin a reconciliation move immediately, if the party really wants to retain power. He also urged Tinubu’s followers to be magnanimous in victory and as a matter of necessity mind their utterances not to aggravate issues within the party. He said, “The primary has come and gone, the bigger picture is the presidential election.” National Chairman of ARG, Mr Wale Oshun, said it was not right to assume that because Atiku emerged on PDP’s platform and Tinubu on APC, Igbo are being maginalised. According to him, Obi, who emerged on the platform of LP, is also a good representation and the party also has what it takes to win the election. Also, the governorship candidate of APC in Oyo State, Senator Teslim Folarin has congratulated Tinubu. The three-term lawmaker, in a message he personally signed hailed the doggedness, sacrifices, maturity and sense of patriotism demonstrated by the co-contestants. He said: “The majority of APC national delegates backed by a majority of presidential aspirants have spoken with their votes that Tinubu has the capacity to defeat Atiku in 2023 general elections and create a developed and prosperous Nigeria in the mood of his achievements in the past in Lagos State. “I urge Tinubu to extend hands of fellowship to his co-contestants and their foot soldiers with a view to closing ranks and working for the victory of the party in the 2023 general elections. “I have absolute confidence in Tinubu’s long years of experience in the democratic space and I know he has all it takes to galvanise the entire membership of the party into a formidable force that will ensure victory for our party in 2023 and beyond. I him of my personal commitment, as well as the cooperation of the entire members of APC in Oyo State with his presidential project.” In another reaction, Spokesman of Middle Belt Leaders Forum, Dr Isuwa Dogo congratulated Tinubu as he also dismissed the insinuation that Igbo have been marginalised in Nigeria politics. “We must acknowledge the fact that Tinubu and Atiku worked very hard to get the tickets of their parties likewise as Obi is the candidate of LP. “But in my candid opinion, it would be difficult for another party, apart from APC and PDP to win the presidency in 2023,” he suggested. MEANWHILE, the publisher of Ovation International Magazine, Chief Dele Momodu has said that the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, remains a tough nut to crack for the former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, who clinched the APC ticket. Momodu said contrary to the general impression that Tinubu won the primary because of his war chest and inducement of delegates, he said, the former Lagos State governor’s long-term strategy and planning gave him the victory. Momodu, who hosted a Random Gist on Twitter’s social media network, said that many of today’s politicians are in a hurry to get to the forefront, but the likes of Tinubu and Atiku started building their structures over a long time. He explained that other politicians like President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku contested for various offices but failed, they were never discouraged. According to him, Tinubu has influence in all the nooks and crannies of the country and has invested in the mentorship of other politicians and this is the factors behind his success. He noted that many young politicians are in a hurry to get to the forefront, but the likes of Tinubu and Atiku built their structures over the years. He said Peter Obi, who was in the PDP with him dumped the party for Labour party but the question he asked him as a friend is, “Who is going to fund the party?”