The Lagos state Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran, popularly known as Jandor, has urged the party’s candidates in the 2023 general elections to ensure a common front to defeat all forms of opposition in the state. He assured that the PDP will make Lagos great again and work for everyone and not few privileged individuals.Speaking at the weekend in Lagos during a meeting with all the party’s candidates for the 2023 general elections, Jandor said he’s coming with fresh ideas that would transform the state. Jandor said the PDP is not oblivious of the challenge ahead, considering that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in power for more than two decades in the state. He, however, admonished all the candidates to brace up for the task ahead before the party. He said, “We believe it is important for us to work together and to see how we can talk to ourselves about it. We know that the ruling party has been there for over 20 years now, so, we must work together and present a common front to be able to defeat the APC. I press it on my colleagues that all eyes are on us and the people want to see what we are bringing to the table and we cannot afford to fail our people.” Jandor said that there’s need to work on the traffic situation, the erosion and flooding whenever it rains, which has become a nightmare, of sort, for the people. “I think everybody understand what we are seeing in term of huge internally generated revenue. We need a better fresh air on our roads and do something about flood. What we need is a government with listening ears that will give attention to all these things. Unfortunately, what we have is the same set of people that we are recycling. What will you expect if you do same thing over and over again? “Let us make Lagos great with a new government. We don’t have to be recycling bad government every time. We are ready to make Lagos work again. We need everybody to come and vote for us. As far as PDP is concerned, it is our time and we are coming for that with a Big Bang. We are ready to make Lagos great again; and everybody is looking at us and expecting a lot from us. Let us sit down and talk to ourselves because we know that all eyes are on us.” Jandor said. Speaking earlier, Segun Adewale, PDP Lagos West Senatorial District candidate, said Jandor has been ordained to govern Lagos. Adewale said he consulted widely before he aligned with Jandor when it was clear to him that his emergence and victory at the poll in 2023 is divinely ordained. Other members of the Lagos PDP at the meeting were Wale Gomez, Lagos Central Senatorial Candidate and his Lagos East counterpart, Nicholas Adekunle; Director of Strategy and Communications of Lagos4Lagos Seun Soyinka, Funke Ijayekunle and Bankole Wellington, (Banky W) PDP candidate for Eti-Osa Federal Constituency and others. 