Apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has denied endorsing the presidential aspiration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. It stated this while reacting to a story, captioned: ‘Ohanaeze Ndigbo dumps Peter Obi, declares support for Tinubu’. According to a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Dr. Alex Ogbonnia, “the purveyor of the above remarks is Chief Solomon Aguene, the immediate past president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Lagos State Chapter.” The statement reads in part: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo informs the general public that the current president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos State Chapter, is Chief Sunday Ossai, and only the Chapter President or an authorised officer of the current Lagos State executive has the right to speak on behalf of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos State Chapter. “The general public is requested to disregard reckless statements by impostors, charlatans, unscrupulous social climbers and pretenders whose major objective is both mischievous and shady. “Ohanaeze believes that any person with a democracy credential will dissociate self from a person whose public conduct is at variance with democratic norms, and that the Aguene endorsement of a presidential candidate is hollow.” MEANWHILE, Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has said there was never a time it rejected Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential flag bearer of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement by its Director of Strategic Communication, Mr. Samaila Musa, CNG said it is resolutely committed to protecting the interest of Northern Nigeria without derailing from its ideals of neutrality, good governance and quality leadership. The statement reads: “The attention of CNG has been drawn to media publications going round that it has said, ‘Okowa can’t guarantee PDP victory’ and purportedly recommended one Dr. Ibrahim Bello-Dauda as the preferred vice presidential candidate for the APC. “The CNG asserts that it is neither pro APC nor pro PDP or any political party for that matter. CNG does not condemn or recommend any candidate or running mate for any political party. CNG, during its last meeting or at any other engagement, neither discussed nor condemned the choice of Okowa. “CNG does not know or have any relationship whatsoever with Dr. Ibrahim Bello-Dauda, hence, does not recommend or prefer him as vice presidential candidate for the APC. While a member or affiliate of the CNG may have his personal opinion on national issues, as guaranteed in the Nigerian Constitution, the CNG, hereby, disassociates itself from such positions and pronouncement. “We call on the media to always verify the veracity and authenticity of any statement before going to press. We equally advise that journalists should always separate personal opinion of an individual from the collective, official position of the CNG.” 