Senator Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central), yesterday, formally announced his defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Peoples Democratic party (PDP). Declaring his defection in Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State, the former governor said his decision was informed by his effort to fulfil the desire of his supporters spread across the state. Aliero was two-term governor of Kebbi and Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) noted. The lawmaker said: “People of my Kebbi Central constituency, my teeming supporters from across the state and I have resolved to defect from APC to PDP due to the injustices we endured in our former party, APC. “Those in support of my political ideology were deceived and treated unjustly; hence, the need for us to leave the party for another political party where we feel we shall be accommodated and treated justly.” According to him, before arriving at a conclusion of leaving the party, several efforts to resolve the issue, including complaints to the national headquarters of the party, failed. He, therefore, appealed to his supporters in Kebbi Central, as well as other loyalists across the state, to vote PDP to ensure its victory at all levels. MEANWHILE, the Kebbi Central PDP candidate and Board of Trustees (BOT) member, Haruna Saidu, has expressed readiness to take legal action against anybody that conspires to claim that he agreed to abandon his ticket for Aliero. In a petition to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), he warned: “I do not and will not withdraw my candidature for any person. Please, discountenance any presentation from INEC and my Certificate of Return from your office, in respect and loyalty to our great party.” He denied allegations of relinquishing the PDP ticket to Aliero for monetary and other benefits. “I can’t afford to throw out my hard-earned reputation on a matter I have not made any commitment thereof. I have paid my dues in this great party of ours and can’t be made a sacrificial lamb for the sake of people’s ego, interest and inordinate desires,” he added. Aliero, who lost to Governor Abubakar Bagudu at the APC gubernatorial primary, dumped the party for PDP after the convention. 