The All Progressives Congress (APC) has lost three senators to opposition political parties Their defections might not be unconnected with the powerplay within the ruling party that denied a good number of federal lawmakers return tickets to the National Assembly. The defecting legislators are: Senators Ahmad Babba Kaita (Katsina North), Lawal Yahaya Gumau (Bauchi South) and Francis Alimikhena (Edo North). Kaita and Alimikhena decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), while Gumau pitched tent with New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Notice of their resignation and defection was contained in three separate letters, read during plenary by Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, in Abuja. The latest development reduces the total number of APC senators from 70 to 67 in the upper legislative chamber. IN a related development, PDP, yesterday, nominated Senator Philip Aduda as its new Minority Leader, while Senator Chukwuka Utazi was picked as fresh Minority Whip. The nominations were contained in a letter signed by the party’s National Secretary, Samuel Anyanwu. The correspondence, which was read at commencement of plenary by Lawan, indicated that Aduda’s nomination followed resignation of the former occupant, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe. Abaribe, last week, formally announced his dumping of PDP for the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The party also explained that Utazi’s nomination was consequent upon Aduda’s elevation as Minority Leader. RELATEDLY, the member representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Iwajowa/Kojola Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, has abandoned APC for Accord Party. He communicated his decision via a post on his social media platforms, stating: “Accord Party is a force to reckon with.” Peller continued: “Earlier today on the floor of the House of Representatives, I announced my defection from APC to Accord Party. “After my exit from APC, we engaged other political parties. We had numerous options, but we opted for Accord for very peculiar reasons. “Accord happens to be the first party in Oyo State to zone Oyo North senatorial ticket to Oke-Ogun, considering that Ogbomosho zone had done two terms. “The party has shown an unwavering commitment to the yearnings of the people of Oke-Ogun. It has given us hope and a sense of belonging. “In Oyo State, Accord Party is a force to reckon with. Its internal democracy mechanism is intact, a component lacking in other parties. “Accord Party is also strategic, as it concerns balloting. On the ballot paper, Accord comes first before the two major parties. With Accord as our party, voting sensitisation becomes easier for us to do.”