Three persons collapsed on Monday during the military parade which held at the Eagle Square, Abuja, as part of the activities to mark the 2022 Democracy Day celebrations. The individuals, drawn from the different units of the military, eyewitnesses say, may have succumbed after being weighed down owing to pressure, having been standing hours long before the commencement of the exercise in earnest. The parade, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, was well under way when commotion broke out from behind one of the parties as some security and medical personnel were seen scrambling stretchers to move those who had collapsed for urgent medical attention. They were rushed to the medical tents provided at the square where health officials eventually revived them.
It was not clear whether they were able to return to their duty posts for the continuation of their duties. Meanwhile, the parade was performed by four military units including the Army, Navy, Air Force and a detachment drawn from the Police, with combat display performed by the Nigerian Army Female Corps as well as traditional dance display representing the main ethnic groups in the country. President Buhari who was the Special Guest of Honour, thereafter inspected the guards, which was followed by a military/police march past in slow and quick time. There was a combined silent drill display by the armed forces and police, a playlet performance before the parade advanced in review order. Former President Goodluck Jonathan was among the dignitaries that witnessed the colourful ceremonies. Babagana Kingibe, the running mate to the winner of the 1993 presidential election, M.K.O. Abiola, was introduced as former Vice President and requested to join in a group photograph with President Buhari, Jonathan, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; the Chief Justice of the Federation, Ibrahim Tanko, and the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdulahi Adamu 