• Lauds S’West leaders for electing Tinubu as flagbearer
• Seeks support for ex-gov to actualise presidency dream The National Vice Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), South-West, Mr. Isaac Kekemeke, has lauded the northern governors for conceding the presidential ticket of the party to the South in the forthcoming general elections. Kekemeke, in a statement in Akure yesterday, said: “The northern governors deserve commendation for their altruistic and patriotic resolve to transfer presidential powers to southern Nigeria. “They indeed piloted the Nigerian plane off bad weather with its imminent dangers. They salvaged our party and Nigeria from avoidable crisis through their desire for a united Nigeria based on equity and fairness. “Their sacrificial position must inspire all, irrespective of tribe, religion and status, to work for a united Nigeria.”The APC chieftain, who is also the pioneer chairman of the ruling party in Ondo State, lauded the President and leadership of the party across the six geo-political zones for electing the former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, as the presidential candidate of the party. “We express gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for deepening and entrenching internal democracy by insisting on a level playing ground for all aspirants at the primary. “The South-West APC appreciates our esteemed leaders and members of the progressive governors’ forum for providing the critical leadership that birthed the victory that we all savour today,” he further said. He saluted the courage, determination, sense of patriotism and high sense of duty of the delegates, describing them as “the ultimate deciders and end-workers of the eventful victory.” Also, a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan by Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Ayo Afolabi, said Tinubu’s  election demonstrated an overwhelming support from Nigerians across the geo-political zones, which was a clear indication that Nigerians want him as their next president. “The APC in South-West will stand by you in every step you take in the journey to the Presidency, and we like to assure you that we will deliver the votes of the region in not less than 90 per cent of total registered voters,” the statement stated. “We are one with our governors, National Assembly members, House of Assembly members, local councils and indeed all leaders and members of the party within the South-West region in this movement,” the statement stated. The APC, therefore, appealed to all Nigerians to stand up and be counted in the noble movement to build on the legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari, which would put Nigeria in its proper place in the comity of nations. 