 Boomplay (www.Boomplay.com), ranked the #1 and most extensive music streaming app in Africa, has opened its Côte d’Ivoire office to enhance music streaming and help Ivorian artists reach a broader audience within and outside the continent.  With over 70 million monthly active users, 80 million songs and thousands of playlists available on the service, Boomplay remains committed to helping the African music ecosystem unlock its full potential by providing a service that gives music lovers easy access to their favourite songs while activating various promotional strategies and initiatives that are beneficial to artists and the industry at large. The Boomplay app is available for free download in the Google Play store for Android, App Store for iOS and on the web via  www.Boomplay.com, offering free ad-supported and subscription-based premium streaming, which provides an ad-free streaming experience and enables offline play. After Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Ghana and Cameroon, Boomplay continues its expansion by opening its offices in Abidjan, a true cultural hub in the sub-region, the Ivorian economic capital, which represents a market with great potential for music streaming. Speaking about the launch, Boomplay Côte d’Ivoire General Manager, Paola Audrey Ndengue, said, 'We're particularly proud to establish a presence in Abidjan, a creative and cultural hub in the region. The warm welcome our team has received from artists, local partners and stakeholders is a strong indicator for us moving forward. Boomplay is committed to contributing to the dynamism of the Ivorian music industry''. Boomplay's Director of Artist & Media Relations, 'Tosin Sorinola, said 'This physical presence extends Boomplay's mission to promote local talent by providing them with a platform and resources within and outside of the service, which enables them to reach a wider audience of music lovers across the continent. We are delighted to provide a transparent service which ensures that artists get due revenue from their music streaming''. The Boomplay app was first launched in Nigeria in 2015 and comes pre-installed on TECNO, Infinix, and itel branded phones, making a dynamic range of local and international songs in different genres available to lovers of good music across Africa. The streamer, which has partnered with music industry giants such as Universal Music Group, Sony Music, Warner Music Group and many homegrown music aggregators and content providers across the continent, aims to build and connect with industry stakeholders in Côte d’Ivoire to replicate and improve on successes achieved in other markets where it exists. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Boomplay. Connect with Boomplay CIV:
Instagram : https://bit.ly/3xgMIVp
Facebook : https://bit.ly/3O7GP3B
Twitter : https://bit.ly/3zp0hFb
TikTok : https://bit.ly/3mxxsOZ About Boomplay:
Boomplay is a music streaming and download service provided by Transsnet Music Limited. Boomplay houses millions of songs, videos, and entertainment news and allows its users to stream and download their favourite songs and videos and subscribe to access premium features such as ad-free streaming and saving music for offline play. Boomplay currently has over 70 million monthly active users (MAU) with a catalogue of over 75 million songs. The service is available globally on mobile through the Google Play Store for Android, App Store for iOS and on the web via www.boomplay.com. The company has regional offices in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, Cote d'Ivoire and Cameroon.