Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ), in collaboration with other Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), and faith-based organisations, has called on Shell Petroleum Development Company to end emissions and stop oil and gas extraction in Nigeria. Convener, ANEEJ, David Ugolor, said that the group held a meeting to discuss Shell’s energy transition strategy submitted to her shareholders for an advisory vote during its yearly general meeting. He noted that the coalition discussed the impact of Shell’s operation in Nigeria, particularly, the Niger Delta region and the role of the Church of England and other shareholders in advancing Shell’s operations in Nigeria and other parts of the world. The group, who organised a rally in front of Shell headquarters in Lagos, demanded that Shell should limit global warming to 1.5C, and produce a just energy transition strategy. “We say no to carbon emission, global warming, fossil fuel expansion, environmental degradation, destruction of livelihoods and gas flaring. We urge the Church of England and other investors to withdraw their moral support for Shell,” they chanted. They called on investors to immediately embark on a fact-finding mission in collaboration with civil society actors to ascertain the true situation of Shell’s operations in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. Ugolor said that the operations of Shell, rather than enrich the people of Niger Delta, had become a nightmare for the people as pollution from spills and gas flaring has led to the complete degradation of the environment, destroyed the source of livelihood and inflicted untold pain and hardship on the people. However, Shell Nigeria, through its Media Relations Manager, Bamidele Odugbesan, said the company is making efforts toward cutting emissions from existing oil and gas operations. “Shell’s target is to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. We are already taking steps to cut emissions from our existing oil and gas operations, and to avoid generating more in the future,” he said. Co-chair, Indigenous Centre for Energy and Sustainable Development, ICE-SD, Legborsi Saro Pyagbara said; “Shell’s climate and energy transition strategy falls short of what is required to achieve Paris Agreement, of limiting the increase in the average global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. “Shell’s emission reduction targets are intensity-based rather than absolute and, despite the need to wind down oil and gas production, the company plans to continue to invest billions of dollars in upstream oil and gas. It targets an increase in its gas production significantly, to reach over half of its business by 2030,” Co-chair, Publish What You Pay Campaign, Nigeria, Taiwo Otitolaye, said for almost four decades Shell has destroyed the environment and subjected people to poverty. He added that the oil company needs to embark on environmental cleanup and restoration of the livelihood of the people.