• My father ‘ll smile in grave, says Lam-Adesina’s son
• Resolve internal wrangling, Peller tells standard-bearer The Senate spokesperson and senator representing Osun Central Senatorial District, Dr. Ajibola Basiru, has congratulated Bola  Tinubu on his emergence as the standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in next year’s presidential election. In his congratulatory message, Basiru described Tinubu’s phenomenal victory at the party’s convention as “a pay back time for a man who stands as the rock of Gibraltar in politics, who lives not only for himself, but also largely for others.” Basiru said that Tinubu, who transformed Lagos as one of Africa’s largest economies, raising its revenues from a few millions to billions, which changed the status of being infamous for slums and dirt, has not only the magical wand but also the intellectual prowess and administrative acumen to achieve greater and more unified Nigeria. He opined that Tinubu’s victory did not come on a platter of gold as he had survived onslaught from both the military and civilians, gone hungry for others and triumphed over adversaries with sociable mien and open mind to calumnies. Besides, he said that time is now for all progressives to come together, gird their loins and work towards victories for the party in all elections, stressing that Osun and Nigeria should not be pushed again into the back waters of development. MEANWHILE, a son of former Oyo State Governor Lam Adesina, Adedapo Lam-Adesina, yesterday, said his late father would be smiling in the grave over the emergence of Tinubu. The younger Lam-Adesina stated this while congratulating Tinubu on his emergence, saying: “Your emergence as the party’s flagbearer does not come as a surprise to many of us who are your political sons. “Be rest assured that we would deliver your victory at the polls.” ALSO, the member representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Oyo State, Shina Abiola Peller, yesterday, urged Tinubu to resolve the internal wrangling in the party. Peller, who gave the charge in a statement signed by his Press Secretary, Kola Popoola, urged Tinubu to ensure that peace reigns within the party.