The best of Nigeria’s basketball-playing students, at the weekend, thronged the Indoor Sports Hall of National Stadium, Lagos, to begin the battle for honours in the 2022 Nestle Milo Secondary Schools Basketball Championship. In the opening game of the competition, which ends on July 1, Government Secondary School (GSS), Abuja, took on Bishop Dimieri Grammar School, Bayelsa State in a boys’ Group A match. Also in Group A in the boys’ category are Bishop Dimieri Grammar School and Victorroti Private School, Ogun State.
At the draws held in the Head office of Nestle Nigeria, Tofield College Ajegunle, Lagos, King Amachree Academy, Rivers State and Dutse Model International School, Jigawa State are in Group B of the boys’ category. In the girls’ category, St. Jude’s Girls Secondary School, Amarata, Bayelsa State, Government Girls Secondary School, Bukavu, Kano State and Queen Amina College, Sabon-Tasha, Kaduna State are in Group A, while David Hall College, Obalende, Lagos State, Government Girls Secondary School, Numan, Adamawa State and Akpur College, Benue State, make up Group B. This year’s championship started with over 10,000 teams participating at the state preliminaries, with the winners from the first stage going on to the regional conference stage, from where teams for national finals emerged. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Mr. Wassim El-Husseini, promised that the firm would not relent on its effort to develop basketball at the grassroots level in Nigeria. “For over two decades now, Nestlé has been at the forefront of grassroots sports development in Nigeria through the Nestlé MILO Secondary Schools’ Basketball Championship. We continue to do our best to help shape a healthier and happier generation of Nigerians by encouraging them to participate in sporting activities.
 
“MILO Basketball Championship also provides a platform for children to imbibe values that set the right foundation for their future,” he said. Also speaking on the competition, Category Manager, Beverages, Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Olutayo Olatunji, said: “The MILO Basketball Championship now brings together over 10,000 schools every year. This Championship started with less than 500 schools in 1999. The school game has grown beyond being just a sport to a passion that helps to discipline the body and mind. We thank our long-standing partners who have been part of the success of the MILO Basketball Championship for these 22 editions – the Nigerian Schools Sports Federation (NSSF), the National Collegiate Sports Foundation (NCSF).” The national president of the Nigeria Schools’ Sports Federation (NSSF), Olabisi Joseph, commended the organisers for helping children achieve their dreams in sports. 