The Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-Determination (NINAS) has again reminded Nigerians that proceeding with the 2023 general elections without first demobilizing the 1999 Constitution will only prolong the misery in the land. Tony Nnadi sent this from NINAS Secretariat • It is now past debate that the toxic 1999 Constitution of Nigeria is the source of the failures of the country and the miseries of Nigerians, including the widespread killings, the mass impoverishment, and general ruin in which Nigerians live. • It is now past debate that no meaningful change can be brought to the situation of Nigeria and Nigerians under flaws of that Constitution. • It is beyond debate that it is by elections that the life of that Constitution is renewed and reinforced every four years and that all political parties contesting elections in Nigeria subscribe to that Constitution since the winner of any elections in Nigeria must swear to and govern by that Constitution. • It is against the backdrop of these realities that the Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-Determination (NINAS), in furtherance of the countrywide repudiation of the 1999 Constitution, declared a Union Dispute and Constitutional Force Majeure, December 16, 2020, on account of grave constitutional grievances of the constituent components of Nigeria and made a five-point proposition for the total decommissioning of the 1999 Constitution and the immediate initiation of a transitioning arrangement to midwife the emergence of fresh constitutional protocols dictated by the self-determination imperative for the constituent components of the distressed federation of Nigeria in place of further general elections in 2023 under that Constitution. • As the implementation of the constitutional force majeure progressed from enlightenment to mobilization and enforcement, the forces of the hegemonic old order (the Caliphate) swung into action to railroad Nigeria to general elections in 2023 under the 1999 Constitution as a counter strategy to preserve the life of that Constitution and the Unitary Union it foists whilst also relying on the enormous powers conferred by that Constitution to facilitate the ferocious conquest campaign of the invading Fulani against the indigenous nationalities of Nigeria. • As the recently concluded party primaries threw up dynamics that triggered an unprecedented wave of interest in voter registration and the concomitant quest for a permanent voter card (PVC) at the time NINAS had launched a No-To-2023-Election-Under-1999 Constitution Campaign and the concomitant No-To-PVC as an integral part of the NINAS No-To-2023 Election Campaign, creating what now seems opposite campaigns around the PVC by forces seeking change from the old order. • For the foregoing reasons, NINAS wishes to remind all that the choice we must make is between the cosmetic changes that might come with elections in 2023 under the fraudulent 1999 Constitution or the fundamental changes that will come with the shutting down of the voyage to 2023 and therefore taking down the 1999 Constitution, thus precipitating the aforementioned transitioning to midwife the inevitable Constitutional Reconstruction. • For the avoidance of doubt, heading into the 2023 elections under the 1999 Constitution, which guarantees for our adversaries 100% control of the electoral infrastructure, particularly INEC and the national security apparatuses, simply facilitates the strategic objective of the enemy, which is to save the life of that Constitution and preserve the unitary union it foists, no matter what the outcome of the 2023 Election is. On the other hand, if a fraction of the energies being committed to pursuing the 2023 Election and PVC is committed to shutting down the voyage to 2023, the 1999 Constitution comes crashing down, precipitating the transitioning that will undertake the fundamental constitutional reconstruction, that will deliver the real change that we all seek, all ratified by referendums in restoration of our sovereignty and self-determination. • Let us be reminded that only a few months ago, Mr. Peter Obi had excellently encapsulated the crux of the NINAS Campaign for fundamental constitutional reconstruction when he declared that the engine of the vehicle we call ‘Nigeria’ is knocked and therefore that the search should be for a new engine and not for a new driver. • Let us be reminded that when the EndSARS Protests erupted in 2020, NINAS tried unsuccessfully to get the protesters to channel the huge energies of the time into demanding the decommissioning of the 1999 Constitution to extinguish the source of the many complex problems confronting them and others in Nigeria. Unfortunately, that extraordinary opportunity was wasted as the five-point demand raised by the EndSARS protesters was too shallow and too narrow to address the root of the problems they wanted to be solved. It all ended disastrously with the October 20, 2020 blood festival at the Lekki Toll Plaza. • Another great opportunity presents itself to us now. The burning desire for change, which informed the current demands for PVC has thrown up humongous energies that could be channeled towards the ousting of the 1999 Constitution and therefore extinguishment of the source of our miseries and bondage. Let it not be wasted on the gamble of pursuing temporary political power via an election the enemy will conduct. 