• Amusan, Ekevwo arrive, AFN secretariat moves to Benin United States-based javelin thrower, Chinecherem Nnamdi, is sure of grabbing a ticket to fly Nigeria’s flag at the World Athletics Championships in Oregon and the Commonwealth Games in England despite what he considered a ‘high standard’ set by the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN). Nnamdi, who got a bronze medal in men’s javelin at the last World U-20 Athletics Championships in Nairobi, Kenya, arrived in Lagos on Saturday alongside four other athletes, Godson Brume, Udodi Onwuzurike, Nathaniel Ezekiel and Imaobong Nse Uko. Speaking with The Guardian at the Murtala Mohammed Airport, Lagos, Nnamdi described the 85.00 metres standard set by AFN at the national trials in Benin City ‘as higher’ than usual this year. For a foreign-based male javelin thrower to secure the ticket to the World Championships and the Commonwealth Games, he must throw 85.00 metres, while women must throw 64.00 metres. Nnamdi, who became the first Nigerian athlete in 19 years to win a field event medal at the World U20 Championships in Nairobi since Esther Aghatise won a medal in long jump in 2002, stated that he would try his best to meet AFN’s target in Benin. He is also targeting the 2024 Olympics in Paris to make a meaningful impact in javelin. “My dream for javelin in Nigeria is to have as many athletes going for the 2024 Olympics and winning medals,” Nnamdi stated.
 Sprint hurdler, Tobiloba Amusan and sprinter, Raymond Ekevwo, have arrived to battle for tickets at the national trials holding in Benin from June 24 to 26. The duo arrived aboard Qatar Airways and Royal Air Maroc flights respectively on Sunday. Amusan improved her African 100m hurdles record (12.42s) by 0.02 to 12.41s on her way to winning the event at the Diamond League in Paris, France, on Saturday. Amusan, who will be bidding to defend her Nigerian 100m hurdles title in Benin, will also be seeking to break the 12.63s Nigeria Championships record set by Angela Atede in Lagos in 1997. On his part, Ekevwo, who ran 10.11seconds to finish second in the 100m event at the World Athletics Continental silver tour in Madrid on Saturday, is seeking his first national 100m title and a ticket to the World Athletics Championships after making his debut in 2019 in Doha, Qatar. He will also battle for his ticket to first Commonwealth Games. The Guardian learnt yesterday that the AFN secretariat would temporarily relocate from Abuja to Benin City today ahead of the national trials. Among those expected in Benin City are AFN’s Technical, Samuel Onikeku, and some members of staff of the federation.
Chairman of Edo Sports Commission, Yusuf Alli, told The Guardian in a telephone chat yesterday that the government and people of Edo State are ready to give Nigerian athletes, their coaches and other visitors the best treatment at the national trials.