Former minister of Niger Delta Affairs Godsday Orubebe has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Orubebe announced his resignation in a letter addressed to Iyorchia Ayu, national chairman of the PDP. He criticised the PDP for refusing to zone its presidential ticket to the south, saying it was unfair to have a presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar and the national chairman from the north. READ MORE: Atiku Abubakar beats Wike, Saraki at PDP presidential primary “Consequently, I am by this letter intimating you of my total withdrawal from all activities at the Ward, Local, State, and National levels of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP),” Orubebe said. “I am highly honoured and privileged to have been part of a political party that successfully transformed a pariah nation to one that commanded respect in the comity of nations.” The former minister said his resignation is effective immediately, and that he has notified his ward chairman in Burutu LGA of Delta state. The former minister noted that the PDP is not prepared to win the presidential election in 2023 by disregarding calls for the presidency to go to the south. “When we lost the Presidential election in 2015 in bewildering circumstances, to say the least, it was my belief that the party would use the opposition period to re-strategise to take back power at the earliest opportunity,” Orubebe said. “However, the present situation in the party does not inspire confidence that the party is ready to regain power in 2023. Against the mood of the nation and in complete disregard for the provisions of the party’s constitution, the party, threw the zoning of the Presidency open, which created a situation that led to the emergence of a Northerner as the party’s Presidential flagbearer, thus making the two topmost positions in the party, after your emergence as the National Chairman, to be occupied by Northerners, contrary to section 7.3(0) of the party’s constitution.” The former minister commended Rivers State governor Nyesom Wike for “his efforts and gallantry at the (PDP presidential) primaries” where he was second with 237 votes behind Atiku who polled 371 votes. “Posterity will be kind to him (Wike) when the history of the party is written,” Orubebe said. “There are lots to be said, but out of respect for the party, I leave some stories untold at this time. My belief in the sanctity of Nigeria is unshaken and I will continually work for her progress and development, even if it is through another route.” 