The first batch of 400 intending pilgrims from Kano arrived at Prince Bin Abdulazeez International Airport, Madina, Saudi Arabia on Tuesday onboard Azman air Airbus A340-600. The first airlift which departed Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano at exactly 2:34 am Tuesday was part of 2,229 intending pilgrims scheduled for the 2022 hajj from Kano. Hajj Coordinator, Azman air, Aliyu Nurudeen told journalists that the airline is scheduled to convey Kano passengers for multiple trips to that would last till Friday. Aliyu disclosed that the airline is fully prepared with renewed efforts to complete all the scheduled flights to Saudi Arabia before the deadline without compromising pilgrims’ comfort. Prior to their departure, Kano State Governor Dr.Abdullahi Umar Ganduje charged the Kano contingents to conduct themselves in the best manner and remain worthy ambassadors of the state throughout their days in the holy land. Addressing the intending pilgrims at the hajj wing of the Airport, Ganduje cautioned the guests of the holy land to take cognisance of rules and regulations guiding the spiritual activities and obey the Saudi Arabia laws as they embark on the virtual exercise. Represented by his deputy Dr.Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, the Governor reminded them to conduct themselves according to the tenets and enlightenment guide about the Hajj exercise taught them for about eighteen months. The Governor assured them that the state government has made adequate arrangements for their welfare, security, and comfort in the holy land. He however called on the pilgrims to pray for the country to overcome the security challenges bedeviling it. The Executive Secretary of the State Pilgrims Board, Muhammad Abba Dambatta appreciated the support given by the Governor towards the provision of adequate accommodation to enhance the welfare and comfort of the pilgrims during the Hajj exercise. Dambatta disclosed that the departed pilgrims have received their $800.00 BTA and every necessary traveling documents while assured readiness to transport the remaining pilgrims. 