The GREE Coolman Initiative was birthed in the year 2020 through the vision of Chief Diana Chen, Chairman of Choice International group, owners of the GREE Air conditioner franchise in Nigeria to inspire skilled technicians looking to improve their skills and unskilled technicians who are eager to become part of the industry, to invest in themselves and increase their chances of sustainable employment and growth in entrepreneurship. As GREE, the world’s leading cooling and air conditioner brand introduced into the market some new products with an array of upgraded, and interesting features, the management deemed it fit to boost its after-sales service with the introduction of the GREE Coolman Program. Some of the new technology on show includes the G-tech inverter air conditioning unit which boasts superior performance as well as beautiful aesthetics in its look and feel. The units are designed to be energy efficient and provide important cost-saving qualities as well as eco-friendliness add to that, their interoperability with modern smart home systems through their accessibility by WIFI. The COOLMAN INITIATIVE was designed as a two-day empowerment and accreditation program packed with important practical benefits to participants such as skill acquisition, certifications, 250ml value Vacuum pumps machines for installation, and access to employment opportunities. The event had in attendance, numerous applicants looking to take up the challenge of being GREE Coolman ambassadors. The 2022 edition of the program began at 10:30 am on Tuesday, June 14th at the Choice International Group Building, Victoria Island, Lagos, with an introductory speech and welcome address by Mr Chibuzor Ogunka, the Sales Manager of GREE, who took participants through the highlights of what they could expect during the program. The Trainers, Mr Lanus Aruldoss, After Sales Manager, GREE Nigeria, and Mr. Paul Jarouj HVAC Eng. and the head of technical Maintenance Eko Hotel graced the stage with their presentations and interactive session which predominantly centered on key topical segments such as the GREE Coolman Policy as well as the Operation Guide and Basic Requirements for the installation of the GREE Air Conditioner installation. They rounded off their lectures with detailed descriptions and an overview of the tools used to disassemble the GREE air condition units. During the practical installation process, each trainee demonstrated great enthusiasm, zeal, and rapt attention, learning how to assemble, arrange and connect the inverter air conditioning unit from start to finish. A TV commercial presenting an overview of GREE was shown to educate the trainees on the additional aspects of the air conditioning brand. Mr. Kayode Osidehin, After Sales Supervisor of GREE A/C, unveiled the new set of inverter air conditioners, as a step to commence the Inverter Training Session. As he explained, the main objective of this program was to equip individuals with techniques for selling the GREE product as well as the skills required to install and operate the air conditioners effectively. He gave detailed explanations of the GREE inverter air conditioner’s functionalities and features, whilst highlighting some aesthetic features like its matte texture and seamless design. The event took an engaging turn with some ice breaker activities conducted by Chibuzor Ogunka, Sales Manager for GREE A/C. Chief Diana Chen, gave a short tour of the facility to the attendees to further acquaint them with the operations of the company. whereafter, she encouraged the trainees to focus their energies on ensuring they reap the benefits of the program and go on to become worthy ambassadors of the GREE brand as well as accredited technicians qualified for the opportunities ahead. She further said “If Gree can be great in Nigeria it relies on you our partners on the field offering the services to the public, you don’t just have to love the job or the installation of the AC, you should be proud of it and promote it on your social media and to your family and friends. You have to deliver quality and professionalism in the Coolman style. Also speaking at the event, the CEO Niglemech Nigeria Limited, the Sole distributor of GREE air-conditioners in Kano, who travelled to Lagos State to grace the event encouraged the participants to take their training seriously, as they were associating with a product of quality and innovation. The GREE Accredited Technical Training Program is one of the numerous activities by GREE A/C to stimulate Nigeria’s economic and human capital development. The Program came to an end with the Coolman slogan which all participants chanted; We are Smart, we are Handsome, we are cool!