Elizade Autoland has introduced a sedan, JAC J7 sleek, into the Nigerian automotive market. The car, which is one of the outcomes of recent collaboration between Volkswagen and JAC Autos, was unveiled last week to guests at a high profile event in Lagos. Chairman and Founder of Elizade, Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, who said he was impressed with the  performance of the JAC brand in Nigeria in less than 10 years, noted that the introduction of the J7 indicated the general acceptability of the JAC brand in the country. Managing Director, Elizade Autoland,  Ademola Ade-Ojo, recounted the interesting nine-year experience of the auto company in building confidence in buyers. He noted that they were encouraged by customers’ warm acceptance and continued improvement in the design and overall performance of the JAC models in the passenger, commercial and light duty trucks. He also stated that after the acquisition of 75 per cent of JAC by Volkswagen, “the merger and acquisition has helped to improve the design, quality, specification and overall experience of passenger vehicles. The first set of car models birthed from this German- Asian infusion among others is the all-new exclusive JAC J7 (the sleek).” Head of Brand and Marketing Communication at the Elizade Autoland, Franklyn Okotie, gave the synopsis of the car’s features. The J7, he said, had been designed with an abundance of trailblazing features that harnessed the latest technological breakthroughs to move riders from their take-off point to the destination in turbo-speed. Other key and selling features of the 1.5 litre engine, according to him, are its fuel economy, yet fast-running and sleekness. The J7 is said to present a sporty, waterfall intake grille as its unique front design and well detailed LED headlamps form a stunning front appearance. And the unique threading rear backlight gives the car design a wider and sporty appearance with a streamlined hatchback body. The Tail lift has an elevated height to take in bigger items when opened. According to the auto firm, the driver doesn’t need to touch the key to open the trunk or the car doors, the censor button on car key controls all the locking and unlocking features even while in the pocket.