As Nigerians prepare for the 2023 general elections, Mr Felix Hyat, PDP chairman in Kaduna State, has said that the chances of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, his party’s presidential candidate, are “extraordinarily bright”. “Atiku is a well known name in Nigeria. No name is equal to his. “He was Vice President for eight years and got 11 million votes in the 2019 presidential election. So, his chances this time are just very bright,” Hyat, former aviation minister, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. He said that Atiku’s focus, as he told PDP delegates, would be to unite the country, ensure adequate security and create jobs. “Nigerians must unite to save the country and strengthen the economy. That’s Atiku’s focus. “We also need to secure the country from bandits that make it difficult for even local farmers to produce food. “With the current insecurity, even our roads are no longer safe which has stagnated our economy. We must all unite to save and strengthen the nation,” he said. He also spoke on the allegations of a gang-up against Nyesom Woke, Rivers governor, in the presidential election. “There was no gang-up. Wike did so well and got solid votes across the country. “He was, and still is, a force to be reckoned with. But in any contest, there’s always a winner and a loser. But in this particular case, it is democracy that won. No one can ignore Wike,” he said. Hyat also spoke on the chances of the PDP governorship candidate in Kaduna State, Alhaji Ashiru Kudan. “Our candidate is consistent; in 2019, we won and wanted to prove that at the election tribunal, but our call for a recount of the votes fell on deaf ears. “The ballot boxes were there and ready to be recounted, but the tribunal members were afraid to recount.” He said that Kaduna State people were “solidly determined” to ensure PDP victory in 2023 as the current administration had not lived up to expectations. “All the cries have worsened. The state is more indebted. Insecurity has worsened. So, the people want a change,” he said. He said that the primaries were open and all aspirants had a fair chance of picking the ticket. “That is why the losers congratulated the winner. Justice was done to everyone.” He said that efforts were in progress toward reconciling all winners and losers so as to present a cohesive front in the secondary election. “At all levels, both state and federal, the PDP has set up an elaborate mechanism for carrying everybody on board,” he said. Hyat said that many support groups had sprung up to offer PDP a strong base towards victory. “Everyone is coming on board. Everyone wants to rescue Nigeria and Kaduna State. PDP is the platform to achieve that,” he said. 