A law firm, Jurimetrics Legal Consults, has petitioned Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, over alleged unlawful detention of innocent citizens.
    
The firm, acting as counsel to Stonehood Limited, a construction company situated at Kilometre 4, Idi – Iroko Road, Sango Ota, Ogun State, stated that they were briefed by their client, that the company advertised one of its working trucks for sale in the sum of N11 million and one Mr. Ademola, now at large, came for negotiation as the agent to the potential buyer from Port Harcourt, Rivers State.
    
“The firm said Mr. Ademola brought a man,  whom he introduced to the Transport Manager of the company, Alhaji Mikail Lawal, as mechanic to the buyer, but was later said to be a sub-agent, for inspection of the truck. “On June 9, 2022, our client was shocked to discover that, in lieu of the company’s account given to the buyer’s agent, Mr. Ademola, he gave his personal account to which the buyer allegedly sent a sum of N5 million and he absconded.
 
“All calls and entreaties to his known telephone numbers were fruitless, before he eventually switched off same. Our client was further surprised when police agents came and arrested Alh. Mikail Lawal, the Transport and Logistics Manager, and Mr. Haruna Yekini, the Truck Manager, and detained them presently at Eleweran, Abeokuta.
 
“Since the detention, the hapless staff of our client, who are the breadwinners of their helpless families, have been sustaining aggravated psycho -emotional injuries as all entreaties to secure their bail are met by unaffordable costs. “We most humbly solicit, sir, for the intervention of your good office to promptly release the detainees and apprehend the culprit, as their detention is, with respect, occasioning miscarriage of justice on the innocent citizens. It will be appreciated if deserved credence is given to the urgency of this letter, as a stitch in time saves nine.” MEANWHILE, police authorities in Ogun State have swiftly denied custody of the suspects.
  
Spokesperson for the Command, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Abimbola Oyeyemi, told The Guardian that the suspects  are no longer in their custody. “ We have since released them. However, I am investigating this allegation and would get to the root of the matter, ” he said. 