Cross River State Government has ordered the dethronement and withdrawal of certificates from monarchs involved in communal clashes. Those affected were the Obol Lopon of Nko, Obol Etim Ayomobi, in Yakurr and the clan head of Oyadama, Ovarr Vincent Erena, in Obubra Council. They were sacked yesterday by the state Governor, Ben Ayade. Their sacking was contained in a statement signed by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Linus Obogo. The sacking followed lingering communal war between Nko and Oyadama communities over a piece of land. Recall that June 24, eight persons were killed in a fresh communal clash between the two communities. And on Saturday, two persons were allegedly killed when the Army deployed to the warring communities were disarmed and shot by some youths from Nko. The state government condemned the attack on the army and ordered that those behind the shooting be fished out.The statement reads: “The ownership of the disputed land has been revoked and taken over by the state government for overriding public interest. “Additionally, government has ordered the sustenance of army operation in Nko community until those behind the shooting of the six military personnel are produced or fished out.” Member representing Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr. Alex Egbona, had earlier condemned the age-long war between the two communities. Egbona appealed to the communities to sheathe their swords and embrace peace, saying: “I have been disturbed by the news of lingering rift between Nko and Enyadama. It makes me sad and uncomfortable that this unfortunate incident has been allowed to fester for this long. A former presidential aide, Chief Okoi Obono-Obla, has also condemned alleged attack by the Army on Nko community. He called on the Chief of Army Staff to immediately caution the soldiers deployed from Edor Barracks in Ikom.
Obono-Obla stated in a statement released to newsmen in Calabar: “The Army’s high command must immediately call these soldiers to order. “The reprisal attack by soldiers against Nko community leaves a sour taste in the mouth. These reprisal attacks by law enforcement agencies on innocent villagers are intolerable and wicked. “The perpetrators of this senseless and mindless violence must immediately be arrested and brought to justice.” He, however, condemned the war between the neighbouring communities  and blamed the local government chairmen of both communities and the state government for  not taking preventive steps.