Ganduje, C&S leader task FG, security operatives
Chairman of North Central States Governors’ Forum (NCSGF), Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State, has described as heinous, satanic and heartbreaking the killing of worshippers at the St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Noel Berje, the governor expressed anger over the attack, in which 50 worshippers reportedly died and many injured. Condemning the attack, Bello regretted the increasing cases of armed banditry, extra-judicial killing and other horrific crimes in the country, stressing that Nigerians must remain united to end such unprovoked attacks and wanton killings. “The satanic attack is a condemnable act of terrorism and everything must be done to bring the assailants to justice. We must, as Nigerians, resist any attempt to undermine our unity and peaceful coexistence,” the governor said. He prayed God to expose the perpetrators and their sponsors as well as bring peace and stability to the country. Bello also sympathised with the victims’ families, as well as the government and people of Ondo. SIMILARLY, the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF) said it is infuriated by the attack. The Chairman, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, said the forum condemned the unprovoked attack on the Church and its worshippers as a clear attempt by criminals to instigate religious hatred and inflame passions among Nigerians. While commiserating with the survivors, families of victims, the Catholic Church and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lalong said: “The Northern governors want security agencies to do all that is possible to apprehend those behind the sacrilege, their sponsors and collaborators. This will not only ensure that justice is served, but send a clear message to criminals, who are bent on causing chaos in the country.” He also said the governors were in solidarity with their colleague, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo and his government, assuring him of their prayers. THE Spiritual Father and Chairman, Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church Worldwide ‘Ayo ni O’, Samuel Abidoye, has said that decisive action must be taken to end incessant attacks on Nigerians. In a statement, yesterday, in Bauchi, he declared: “Nigerians are tired of reading statements from the presidency and state governments on the frequent gruesome killings by bandits across the country; rather, this is the time for government to take a decisive action towards eliminating these terrorists from Nigeria.” He described the Owo bloodbath as one too many, ungodly and capable of threatening the foundation and existence of Nigeria, adding that the perpetrators sinned against God and should be ready to face his wrath. ALSO, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has called on the Federal Government and its security arms to synergise and curb insecurity in the country. In a statement, his Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, the governor condoled with the government and people of Ondo over the attack. He called on security agencies in the country to spare no effort in tracking down the perpetrators to face the wrath of the law. “My deepest condolences to my colleague, Governor Rotimi Akerolodu, as well as the government and people of Ondo. Our thoughts and prayers go to the victims and their families,” the statement added. The governor called for concerted effort to deal with the security challenges in the country. 