 Nude designed nails Minimal nails are totally underrated for what they are. However, can mean monochrome colours, abstract designs, negative space, smiley faces pretty much anything you want them to be. Manicure is ideal for a person who doesn’t want a complex or dramatic set of nails. If you’re more of a DIY person, minimalist nail art is way easier to do yourself than a fully elaborated nail, and if you like to switch up your manicure colour palette summer is one of the best times to do so. To give you a better visual and few ideas to get you started as well as some nail shapes to choose from, here are some designs that are simple and clean for your new manicure idea. French Tips
Give your French manicure a colourful update by making each nail tip a different shade. Organise them into any order you desire, using any colour you want. Be in control. Flower Nails
Floral designs have been trending for a few seasons because they are super chic and pretty. Nude nails
Nude never goes out of style and it is one of the best options for a minimalist nail design. You can also opt for gel nail designs. Pastel Nails
These are super pretty and perfect for summer. One thing about minimalism is the simplicity. For your nail idea, you can decide to go simple by painting your nails in thick and different coats on each finger. You can paint your nails with the same colour, but with different shades. Wavy Tips
Go different this summer by painting the tips of your nails in creative wavy lines. They are cute and totally DIY. The Smiley Nail Idea
Nothing goes ever wrong with a smiley face. The designs might be hard to recreate alone so you have to book an appointment with your nail technician to achieve this look. Jewelled Nails
These trendy designs are perfect for summer. Accessorising your nails by adding rhinestones or pearls is also one of the ways to go minimalist. Evil Eye Nails
The best thing about the minimalist nail trend is that there are a million different nail stickers and designs to select from. Pick the one that matches your vibe. This tiny eye is such a good minimalist nail design idea for the summer. Checkers Nails
This look is giving the ‘70s vibes. The Butterflies Nail Idea
Incorporating butterflies into your nail art this summer sounds good, but painting these tiny insects can be tricky. Leave that for the nail tech or why not just use the shortcut of using butterfly nail stickers? Glow In the Dark
Grab all the attention at your next event with glow in the minimalist dark nail art. Choosing Your Next Nail Shape Round nails
Round shapes are perfect for short nails; they are mostly low-maintenance and look minor, yet stylish. And these types of nails will appeal to you if you think your fingers look too ‘short’ or ‘chubby’.
Square nails
Just above the round nails are the square-shaped ones. This shape is defined by a top that has been filed flat and straight edges on the sides. If you have naturally short nails and narrow nail beds, this shape will work for you. It can also come in the form of rounded square nails..
Oval nails
Oval nails look great on longer lengths. They are slimmer and more feminine shape when compared to the round and square shapes. They are unique in their look, as the tips are soft and blunt, more so, they can make your hands look longer. There is another form of nails, which is the combination of both square and oval shapes.
Coffin nails
It is also known as ballerina nails, the shape is similar to stiletto nails, but with a much approachable, squared-off tip. If you like keeping long nails and are looking for an eye-catching shape, this is the one to pick.
Almond nails
A cuter and shorter version of oval nails, almond-shaped nails are narrower and end in a rounded point. To get this shape, you have to file slender sides, have a naturally wide base and bring the tip to a peak – almost like an actual almond. As attractive as the shape is, it can make your natural nails weak, so take care of them. You can also reinforce your nails with a gel polish or acrylics for added strength.