Heavyweights Anthony Joshua’s new trainer, Robert Garcia, is impressed by Tyson Fury, Deontay Wilder and Oleksandr Usyk, but he believes AJ is the most talented, reports talksport.com. It was announced recently that Joshua had hired highly-rated trainer, Robert Garcia, to join his camp, but it seems the American has been a fan for some time. Garcia will be hoping to help AJ reclaim the WBA, WBO and IBF heavyweight world titles in his rematch with Usyk, which is expected to hold on July 23, having been masterfully out-boxed by the Ukrainian in their first fight. Joshua was widely criticised for his tactics in the first fight with Usyk. He engaged in a chess-style bout with one of the most technically gifted boxers in the sport, but Garcia still believes AJ is the top dog in boxing’s glamour division. “Still now, a year ago, two years ago, if you asked me, ‘Who is the most talented heavyweight?’ I’ve always said Anthony Joshua,” Garcia told Little Giant Boxing. “Talent-wise, (Tyson) Fury is a different beast, a different monster. Usyk is very technical and difficult because he’s smaller and fast. (Deontay) Wilder, tremendous power. Everybody has their own unique qualities. “But overall, if you’re talking about talent, I pick Anthony Joshua. And another thing Joshua has is insane power. “Oh my gosh, he’s got great power. More than anybody else I think. “Wilder, I’ve never felt his power, but what I’ve seen of him [knocking] fools out, Wilder is one of those guys too that has that one-punch knockout power. But Anthony Joshua has it. He’s very, very strong.” Previously, Joshua had been trained by Rob McCracken from his days as an amateur with Team GB Boxing and all through his professional career so far. Now, the two-time heavyweight world champion has a new look training team with Angel Fernandez and Robert Garcia, who has led 14 boxers to world titles and was a world champion himself during his fighting days. Perhaps this is exactly the change AJ needed to overcome the considerable challenge of Usyk, but only time will tell. 