As preparations for March 11, 2023, gubernatorial elections gather momentum, Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), may likely face certain hurdles in his quest for a second term in office.  Festering Crises
With less than nine months to the 2023 governorship election, the crisis affecting Oyo PDP is festering. On April 30, after the majority of the critical stakeholders in the party left PDP in droves to join APC, the incumbent Deputy Governor, Olaniyan hung on. The deputy governor and Makinde had been at daggers’ drawn and things came to a head recently when they could no longer cover their differences.
 
Not long after the 2019 gubernatorial election, members of the coalition that worked to bring the incumbent into office began to disengage from PDP on the grouse that Makinde did not honour the agreement upon which they supported him to win.
 
While Makinde kept saying those speaking ill within the ruling PDP in Oyo were requesting that he should use the state’s resources to feather their nest, they dismissed the allegation, saying that contrary to what was initially agreed before he secured their support to win, “Governor Makinde completely jettisoned the interest of those who brought him into office by refusing to give them necessary appointments and or government slots due to them.”  The party cited Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution, which guarantees freedom of association of any person. It added that the deputy governor ought to be enlightened by the same Constitution when it stipulated that the ticket upon which he (Olaniyan) contested the 2019 governorship election alongside Governor Makinde as a deputy was not an independent candidate ticket.  The governor, at the meeting held at the Presidential Lodge of the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, said following consultations with party leaders, he has picked a running mate from Irepo/Olorunsogo/Oorelope Federal Constituency, where his incumbent deputy hails from, to ensure balance in the power configuration. However, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) faulted the impeachment move. The human rights organization called on Muslims in the state to vote out the governor for his anti-Muslim activities.  Intrigues Of Impeachment
WHILE it looks like the odds are against Makinde ahead of 2023, the governor must have also done his homework and come to the conclusion that removing or sidelining Olaniyan and those who left PDP would have no negative effect on his return bid.
 
In terms of popularity, their amiable look Makinde appears to endear him to many of the grassroots people, especially market women. The women believe that the aggrieved stakeholders were only trying to hold the governor to ransome.  