The 2021 updates to the Interstate Treaty on Gambling enabled the players of the online casino market in Germany to come out of the grey zone. The core purpose of the updates was to legalize the revenues of the online casino industry which would already make over 6 billion euros at that moment and enable German players to enjoy gambling games safely. User surveys carried out in Germany show that 32% of players visit online casinos every week and 12% of the survey participants play slots daily. All players prefer to stick with legit online casinos and one-third of them choose online gambling sites licensed by renowned licensing authorities. One core aspect that German players consider when choosing a platform for real online gambling is an intuitive user interface: over 20% of users say they delete apps that feel difficult to use. Besides, they prefer platforms that offer various withdrawal options, fast payouts, proper levels of security (e.g., SSL encryption), and good customer support available via different channels including phone. Unusual experience such as VR as well as lucrative bonuses and VIP programs are likewise important to German players. Thus, for instance, every fifth player says they change the casino whenever they find the one with more attractive perks. Choosing the best casino online among various offers in the booming online gambling industry might be a challenging task. This is why we used Etheremon’s research and expertise to compare dozens of online platforms and select the seven best online casinos for real money in Germany. All online casinos on our list are licensed by credible regulatory authorities and offer lucrative bonuses available with a referral link. Check the next section for more information on the popular type of bonuses. Pay attention that some of these gambling sites rank as the best options in the following regions: How to Drive Your Gambling Experience: Online Casino Bonuses One way to make your gambling experience even more exciting is to opt for the best casinos online that offer comprehensive bonus packages. Let us take a closer look at the main types of perks found in online casinos so that you can choose the one with the most lucrative promotion program. Deposit bonuses One of the most popular types of bonuses that can be found in top online casinos is the deposit bonus. As its name implies, the size of the bonus is equal to that of the deposit. For example, if there is a 100% deposit bonus, a player who makes a deposit of 10 euros, gets 10 euros added to their account. Most commonly, such bonuses have maximum limits such as 5 BTC, 15k euros, or any other sum determined by the casino online. No deposit bonus In contrast to the deposit bonus, the no deposit bonus is the least popular type of perk one can account for. Online casinos that offer this bonus add a certain amount of funds to every newly registered account. In this manner, one can receive some funds to be spent on online gambling without making a deposit. As a rule, the bonus is small and cannot be withdrawn. Free spins Since slots are one of the most popular gambling games in Germany and worldwide, top online casinos are here to offer lucrative free spins packages. This bonus can be used in a combination with a deposit bonus as well as a reward in special promo events such as tournaments, races, and quizzes. Cashback bonuses Another type of bonus top online casinos use to build customer loyalty is cashback. The idea is that the casino returns to a player a certain percentage of the money spent on online gambling. For example, if there is a 5% cashback bonus, a player who spends 100 euros in a casino online, will get 5 euros back. Such bonuses are normally included in VIP packages and other types of loyalty programs. Besides the types of bonuses, it might be useful to know the main types of occasions when these bonuses can be received: To learn more about different types of bonuses and tips to win in the best casinos online, check ORDB insights to find out real-time statistics, casino reviews, and more useful information on online gambling. Best Online Casinos with Great Bonuses for Real Online Gambling in Germany #1 7BitCasino — Best online casino overall PHOTO: 7BitCasino 7BitCasino is a legit online casino with a pleasing interface and a splendid library with all sorts of games from slots and roulette to blackjack and baccarat. One reason why German players might want to test the best casino products is that the library has an exclusively smart design. Thus, for instance, apart from type, games can likewise be sorted by risk and provider. 7BitCasino partners with more than 50 leading software providers including both universally known providers (e.g., Betsoft, Play’n Go, Amatic, etc.) and smaller innovative developers (e.g., Peter & Sons, Green Jade, etc.). The platform is often referred to as the best crypto casino as it has a separate block with BTC games and allows buying crypto coins directly on the website. More exciting features that appeal to players based on their reviews on AskGamblers and similar platforms are Withdrawals Depending on the selected payment method, withdrawal processing time varies from instant to 3 days. Players especially like large limits per transaction as well as the quick and simple verification procedure. VIP program 7BitCasino has a ten-tier VIP program. Players at each level are eligible for a bonus package that consists of a free spins package or cashback (20% max) and special exchange comp points rate (130% max). Demo play mode Players can test the best casino games for free before they decide if they want to use the platform for real online gambling. Available bonuses: 175% bonus + 100 free spins and #2 Bets.io — Best for tournaments with huge prize pools PHOTO: Bets.io Bets.io is an excellent choice for those who seek gambling in a real casino online that is legit, accepts crypto coins, and has a comprehensive game library. Apart from classic slots, jackpots, and table games, players at Bets.io are invited to participate in the exclusive Drops & Win tournament. The tournament games were designed by Pragmatic Play and the prize pool makes immense 13 million euros. For those looking for new online gambling products, the casino has a separate block with new games updated regularly. At the moment of writing this review, the block contains some curious offers from GameArt, Mascot, and Kalamba, to name but a few. Besides, there is a block with Other Games that hosts more than a hundred games that offer some fresh gambling experience and do not match any of the traditional categories. German players might thus consider using this platform for discovering new types of games and online gambling activities. A few more aspects that players like about this online casino as follows from their reviews on AskGamblers are Excellent games What especially attracts players about the library at Bets.io is that each game is presented in a plethora of variants. For example, there are about a dozen of blackjack variants: European blackjack, 21 Burn blackjack, Super 7 blackjack, and more. Great promos Players at Bets.io enjoy daily cashback (20% max), weekly free spin packages (50 FS max), and weekly reload bonuses. Fast payouts Withdrawals are free and instant with large maximum limits of USDT 10k per day. Available bonuses: Daily cashback up to 20% and #3 CloudBet — Best for provably fair arcade games PHOTO: CloudBet CloudBet is an online casino with one of the most comprehensive and diverse game libraries in the market. German players can visit it to try rarely found virtuals, original provably fair arcade games, live game shows, and many more products from the leading software providers such as Play’n Go, Microgaming, and NetEnt, to name but a few. Besides, the online casino is often listed among the best bitcoin sports betting sites as it has an excellent sportsbook with a variety of esports. CloudBet has a six-tier loyalty program that offers multiple benefits to its members from weekly free spins to the casino’s specialty Lighting Points, which can be used as a currency to choose rewards players want. In addition to this, CloudBet has a blog with news and updates on betting and online gambling. New players might like the blog as it offers a lot of helpful information on gambling strategies, provable fair games, and more. As follows from players’ reviews on Trustpilot,  AskGamblers, and similar platforms, Cloudbet can be recommended for A great choice of slots The game library hosts over 1k slots including jackpot slots. Players are likewise encouraged to participate in regular slot tournaments with prize pools of up to 60k euros. Fast withdrawals Payouts at Cloudbet are processed instantly. The casino warns there can be a transactional fee of up to 5%. Prompt customer support 24/7 customer support is contacted through email and live chat. They respond to players’ comments and complaints on Trustpilot, too. Available bonuses: 100% welcome bonus up to 5 BTC and #4 Stake — Best for exclusive casino challenges with daily prizes PHOTO: Stake Stake is an online gambling platform with games to suit any taste: apart from slots, roulette, baccarat, and other traditional categories, there are likewise dozens of Stake originals and exclusives. The library is updated on a regular basis: at the moment of writing this review, there are some curious new arrivals such as Pragmatic Play’s Goblin Heist and Push Gaming’s Fat Banker, to name but a few. One of the reasons why Stake is commonly referred to as the best bitcoin casino is that it contributes a lot to the development of the gambling community. Thus, the online casino has its own blog with useful tips and how-to guides and a Telegram channel with new perks and promo codes. Active players get an exclusive invitation to become a member of Stake’s VP program which offers a variety of lucrative bonuses of all types including but not limited to reload, rakeback, and level up bonuses. Withdrawals are fast and free. Features, which are especially favored by Stake’s players are Game shows The online casino has a wide choice of games in the game show category: the block hosts 21 products from Evolution Gaming, Playtech, and Pragmatic Play. Splendid bonuses Stake’s casino promos and bonuses include daily races with prize pools of up to 100k euros, weekly giveaways, exclusive tournaments and challenges, and many more promo events with generous prize pools. Excellent customer support Customer support team, which is available via email and live chat, also responds to players’ comments and complaints on Trustpilot. Available bonuses: 10% rakeback using code GET10BACKBONUS and #5 N1 Casino — Best for great welcome bonuses for the first four deposits PHOTO: N1 Casino N1 Casino offers a lot of options to make players’ gambling experiences truly diverse and exciting. Thus, for instance, some events that German players can enjoy exclusively at this online casino include the Aviator challenge, where players earn prizes while climbing up a pilot’s career ladder, the Mystery Drops specialty with generous prizes added to famous games and regular tournaments with prize pools of up to 5k euros. Besides, most games in this casino online are available in free-play mode. The platform partners with top software designers such as Play’n Go and Amatic Industries. The graphics are top-notch no matter whether one accesses games via PC or mobile. The lucrative VIP program consists of three leagues, 10 levels each: the player completes the levels in each league by earning comp points. Three top reasons why players on AskGamblers recommend N1 Casino are Simple registration and banking Both the registration and identity verification procedures are fast and simple. Payouts are free and instant, without maximum withdrawal limits. Great bonuses and weekly promos Besides the generous welcome bonus that players get for as many as four first deposits, there are also weekly reload perks that include deposit bonuses and free spins. Excellent service Players can contact customer support 24/7 via email or live chat. The online casino provides several email addresses, where players can send their complaints. They likewise monitor feedback and complaints on AskGamblers. Available bonuses: 15k euros + 200 free spins and #6 BitStarz — Best for a free play mode PHOTO: BitStarz BitStarz is an excellent online gambling platform that does its best to ensure its clients get some fresh impressions on an ongoing basis. There are a plethora of products from top software providers in the New Games block, which can be enjoyed both in a demo mode and for real money. German players might want to visit BitStarz to try their originals. These are the gambling games, that the casino’s team has developed based on their large-scale research of clients’ preferences and needs. There are six originals in BitStarz’s library now: blackjack, Plinko, slot, dice, limbo, and wheel. More reasons to opt for this casino online include BitStarz News block with useful strategy tips, exciting news, and game reviews, and a lucrative original VIP program, the members of which are eligible for weekly cashback with no withdrawal restrictions, a VIP manager, a customized bonus package, and many more perks. Here is what players especially like about BitStarz as follows from their reviews on AskGamblers: Fast payouts Payouts are processed within 10 minutes max. The maximum withdrawal limit per time is 10 BTC. Great games are available in two modes Players can enjoy gambling games offered at BitStarz both in a free demo mode and for real money. The free mode is especially useful to test the new arrivals. Simple and friendly interface BitStarz has an excellent design, which makes it pleasing to navigate the library and easy to find information on banking, VIP program, promos, and other questions. Besides, there is always a live chat button available to contact the support team. Available bonuses: double deposit + 180 free spins and #7 PM.io — Best for the diversity of promotions PHOTO: PM.io PM.io is an online casino that has an intuitive interface and an extensive library with top online gambling products from dozens of leading providers such as Belatra, Betsoft, Kalamba, and more. The feature that might appeal to players in Germany and worldwide is regular original tournaments, missions, and creative promo events. Thus, for instance, at the moment of writing this review, there are at least three tournaments running in the casino online with prize pools up to 60k euros as well as a Pizza Day lottery and an original PM’s mission, where players get guaranteed prizes as they complete 14 stages. The VIP program in this online casino includes five levels. At each level, members of the program are eligible for a great variety of perks from status points to a birthday gift and weekly cashback. In addition to this, PM.io accepts multiple payment methods: withdrawals are free and instant with large maximum limits of up to 4k euros per time. More features, that players point out in their reviews on AskGamblers include A lot of gambling games Players especially emphasize that many games are skill-based, meaning that one can improve with practice and get bigger wins. Games can be played from different devices PM.io products run equally smoothly on PC and mobile, which is not always the case even with the top online casinos. A variety of lucrative bonuses Besides the generous welcome bonus available for the first three deposits, players at PM.io can enjoy promo events with free spins and Drops & Wins slots with weekly prizes. Available bonuses: 100% deposit bonus up to 1.5 BTC using code FIRST and Disclaimer While all online casinos on our list are available to German players, some of them might be unavailable in countries other than Germany due to regional restrictions. This is why we recommend checking the local legislation for information on the legality of online gambling in your region. We want your gambling experience safe and non-harmful and so all online casinos in this review have 18+ age restrictions and offer instruments for responsible gambling such as deposit limits, session time limits, self-exclusion, and more. We kindly suggest contacting the National Problem Gambling Hotline at 1-800-522-4700 for questions on gambling addiction treatment. More information on gambling addiction at gamblersanonymous.org ncpgambling.org gamblingtherapy.org