The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II, yesterday, berated the Yoruba Nation activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as ‘Igboho,’ for condemning the conferment of chieftaincy titles on Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje and his wife, Prof. Hafsat Ganduje. The palace spokesperson, Oladele Ogunsola, while reacting on behalf of Olubadan to Igboho’s vituperations, which were made in Yoruba language in a video, said though there was no particular mention of either the name or title of Olubadan in the said video, the fact that the Saturday occasion was being referenced was not hidden. “The attention of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II, has been drawn to the trending video of the Yoruba nation activist, Sunday Adeyemo, condemning the conferment of chieftaincy titles on both the Governor of Kano State and his wife, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Prof. Hafsat Umar Ganduje respectively. “In the said video shot at the palace of Olugbon of Orile-Igbon, Oba Francis Olusola Alao, Igboho was seen advising the monarch not to join the Yoruba Obas conferring chieftaincy titles on people that do no merit them and that the Olugbon should advise his colleague Obas to desist from such. “As much as the Yoruba nation activist is entitled to his opinion as well as conviction on the Yoruba nation project, he must concede to the fact that others too have the right to do certain things that in their wisdom are considered helpful to Yoruba cause. “It must be placed on record that the present Olubadan is too refined to be seeking for who to honour with chieftaincy title for whatever purpose. But, when a case was made for the Kano State first couple by the Yoruba community in the ancient Kano city through their head, Alhaji Muritala Alimi Otisese and the adduced reasons were considered on their merit, Kabiyesi gave his consent. “Even, as claimed in the video by Igboho that the Yoruba nation project remains on course, do we close our eyes to whatever may be the interest of our kith and kin in other parts of the country?” Ogunsola said in a statement. The stated added: “Here is a man (Governor Ganduje) said to have been compassionate to the Yoruba people in his domain. Presently, Dr. Ganduje is undertaking an auditorium project at the University of Ibadan where he bagged his doctorate degree. “As Kabiyesi noted at the installation ceremony on Saturday, the Kano State helmsman has proved himself as a peace-loving person with the manner he flew down to douse tension at Sasa Market in Ibadan two years ago when crisis broke out at the market between Hausa traders and Sasa natives. We must not forget also that the Gandujes are Ibadan in-laws. “It is advisable that Igboho asks questions before forming an opinion on anything that has to do with Yoruba as a nation to avoid hasty conclusion. The fact that some people from the northern part of the country have taken to crimes and criminality does not mean that all northerners are criminals. If and when the Yoruba nation project comes to be, are we saying there won’t be interaction between the Yoruba people and others in the country again? I doubt it so much.”