The Federal Government says it is working with the National Assembly to initiate a legislation that will adequately address deforestation, industrial pollution and other climate change-related activities. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, disclosed this in Abuja on Thursday at the commemoration of the 2022 International Day for Museums, Monuments and Sites. The theme of the day is “The Power of Museums, Heritage and Climate’’ Muhammed was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Culture,  Mrs Ifeoma Anyanwutaku. The minister also expressed the government’s commitment to addressing the effects of climate change on the nation’s cultural heritage. “As the effect of climate change bites harder on various material evidences of Nigeria’s cultural heritage, the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is working hard with the National Assembly to come up with a legislation that adequately addresses socio-economic activities. “These activities are deforestation, industrial pollution and other associated activities that have the potential to negatively affect the already delicate native of our heritage resources,’’ the minister said. According to him, Nigeria is collaborating with UNESCO convention state parties on global best practices information sharing on applied time tested monitoring, mitigation and adaptation practices. He said the nation’s strategic engagement with traditional institutions, indigenous communities, security agencies foreign bodies and other relevant stakeholders had resulted in the safe return of the Benin artifacts from Museums across Europe. “This has continued to strengthen the drive of our Museums to foster unity through its collection and exhibitions while promoting self-reliance through its vocational skills acquisition programmes,’’ Mohammed said. Also speaking, Prof. Abba Tijani, the Director-General, National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM), said the commission would ensure that the nation`s monuments and sites remained stable in the face of the uncertainties of climate change. Tijani said that the commission had also carried out restoration works on some national monuments such as Chief Odo Nwokolo House in Ukehe, Enugu State and Chief Ochie Kalu House, Ndi Okereke Abam, Abia State. “Others are first Tin Mining Beacon at Tilden Fulani in Bauchi State, Chief Okoroji House, Arochukwu, Abia State and Deji Akure Palace, Akure, Ondo state,’’ he said.