 Amber Heard | Image: JASIN BOLAND/WARNER BROS Amber Heard’s spokesperson has denied reports that the actress was cut from the “Aquaman” sequel following the ruling of her widely aired defamation trial. Heard was scheduled to continue her role as Mera, Aquaman’s love interest in the upcoming sequel “Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom.” However, on Tuesday, an anonymous source speaking to Just Jared claimed the role had been recast. The source said, “Warner Bros. decided to recast Amber Heard’s role after screentesting the movie. They are going to be doing reshoots with Jason Momoa and Nicole Kidman.” A spokesperson for Heard speaking to Variety denied the report, saying “The rumour mill continues as it has from day one – inaccurate, insensitive and slightly insane.” While Just Jared adjusted its story to include that sources close to production told them she had “not been completely cut from the film. She still has a small role,” it insisted that other sources maintained Mera was being completely recast. Heard had played Mera in “Aquaman” and “Justice League.” During the defamation trial, she claimed that she had to “fight really hard” to keep the role due to the negative publicity from Depp’s abuse allegations against her. She also told the court that the new version of the sequel’s script she received removed a fight scene resulting in a “very pared-down version” of her part. DC Films president Walter Hamada admitted that the company considered recasting Heard’s role in the sequel — not because of the abuse accusations but because of a lack of chemistry between Heard and Momoa (Aquaman). Hamada disputed that her involvement in the sequel had been curtailed by the studio. Following the high-profile defamation trial, Depp and Heard’s careers in Hollywood received uncertainty. The 58-year-old Depp filed a defamation suit against Heard over an op-ed she wrote for The Washington Post in December 2018 in which she described herself as a “public figure representing domestic abuse.” While the “Aquaman” star Heard did not name Depp in the piece, he sued her for implying he was a domestic abuser and requested $50 million in damages. The 36-year-old Heard countersued for $100 million, saying she was defamed by statements made by Depp’s lawyer, Adam Waldman, who told the Daily Mail her abuse claims were a “hoax.” After over 13 hours of deliberation, the seven-member jury in Virginia awarded Depp $15 million in damages, finding that Heard’s December 2018 article for The Washington Post defamed him. Heard was awarded $2million in damages for her counterclaim against Depp’s lawyer.