• Abductors of Plateau Catholic priest demand N50m ransom
• Police arrest 87 terror suspects, others in N’East Families of the 11 Abuja–Kaduna train victims, who regained freedom recently, have cried out to the Federal Government that their loved ones are now mentally unstable and in critical condition. They appealed to the government to step up efforts in securing the release of the remaining 50 in the terrorists’ den, whose mental health had reportedly been affected by the trauma. Addressing journalists in Kaduna, yesterday, the families appreciated efforts by the Federal Government and other stakeholders towards the rescue of the 11 last Saturday. Dr. Abdulfatah Jimoh, whose wife was among the freed 11, said: “Today, being the 77th day after the abduction of our loved ones in the AK-9 Abuja­–Kaduna train, we are here to express appreciation to God as well as thank the President, service chiefs and other Nigerians for the efforts at ensuring the release of our loved ones. “The released victims are receiving treatment for the trauma they went through for 77 days. With the psychological trauma and torture, they are mentally unstable. We hope they come back to their normal selves soon. Some of those still in captivity are sick according to information available to us. So, we are appealing to the Federal Government to ensure they are rescued as soon as possible.” Rakiya Othman, whose sister was among the 11, said her brother is among the 50 still in the terrorists’ den. She appealed to the Federal Government to hasten the process of negotiation with the abductors to rescue the others as soon as possible. IN another development, kidnappers of the Parish Priest of St. Anthony Catholic Church, Angware, Jos East Local Council of Plateau State, Rev. Fr. James Kantoma, are demanding N50 million for his freedom. Kantoma, who doubles as the Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Jos East, was kidnapped on Monday morning. Plateau CAN Chairman, Rev. Fr. Polycarp Lubo, said the abductors were demanding a ransom of N50 million to free their victim. MEANWHILE, the Borno State Police Command has arrested 87 suspects for terrorism, abduction, rape and culpable homicide across the state. Some of the suspects were caught with dangerous weapons. Parading the suspects, yesterday, in Maiduguri, the Commissioner of Police, Abdu Umar, disclosed that the suspects were arrested in the first half of 2022 in Maiduguri metropolis, Jere, Konduga, Gwoza and Hauwul local councils. 