Nigerian youths are writing their amazing stories of exploits in a rather alarming fashion. As much as they have been tagged ‘lazy’ and unfuturistically oriented because of cases relating to internet fraud, a few others are not only shaping the future of the continent, but that of the world. Oyemonlan Benjamin Oseoje, who is better known as ‘Trillbjm’, a young tech aficionado, is the superhero of the modern world. He is a proof that there are superhumans among ordinary mortals. Trillbjm is widely reckoned as one of the major revolutionary stakeholders reengineering the future of global money exchange. The Nigerian tech wizard, who is an accomplished individual in the financial technology sector, built the first bitcoin debit card in the continent. The achievement by the University of Lagos alumni underscores the level of his intellect, power of imagination, as well as his resolve to create solutions to problems, create ease in alternative money exchange and project into the future. In an interview with journalists on his feat in the industry, Trillbjm stated: “I first identify a problem I may have at a particular time, I then think of a viable solution. If I can solve that problem, I try to amplify it enough to reach other people who like myself require the solution. This is my secret tool”. Oyemonlan Oseoje did not discountenance the impact of education in his life. “My upbringing had nothing to do with the type of businesses I deal in,” he avowed, “although I will not discount the influence of education. “I have had good education starting with my primary education at Mothercare Elementary School, Lagos and secondary education at CMS Grammar School, Bariga, before acquiring tertiary education at the University of Lagos, University of Michigan”,Trillbjm added. Trillbjm is the youngest ‘Chief Technology Officer’ (CTO) in Africa. The cerebral entrepreneur serves in the capacity in several digital organisations, including Patricia Technology, an alternative payment solutions company that facilitates the easy use of cryptocurrencies for everyday transactions. Other digital companies who have benefitted from his skills are: Gloverapp, Nigeria’s leading gift card exchanger; Hankdevice, a Bluetooth product for locating lost devices, and Rooomxix, a luxury wear store. 