Agricultural & fruit processing company “UtterlyYum” has announced the introduction of a new line of dry fruit products and a new juice variant. The new entrants into the UtterlyYum product line are Pineapple and Coconut juice variant, Dried fruits and nuts fusion, Dried Pineapple, as well as Dried Pineapple and Coconut. UtterlyYum is expanding its portfolio of products and has been in development to ensure it continues to produce high-quality fruit and agricultural products to meet the ever-growing demand from customers. The development process involved working with fabricators in the country to build a functioning prototype machine for the processing of fresh Coconut. The collaboration with local fabricators is part of UtterlyYum’s commitment to promoting home-grown science and technology and the commercialisation of agriculture in Nigeria while delivering quality and affordable products to consumers. Speaking on the launch of the new products, the innovation behind them and projections for the future, Shola Adekoya, the Founder of Utterly Yum said: “While gearing up to begin production of our Pineapple and Coconut juice, Dried Pineapple and Coconut and our Dried Fruits and Nuts, one of the challenges we faced was that of the time between when we develop products and lead time for machinery import. We have developed three different products that require us to process fresh coconuts.” “We have had to make innovation a core part of our culture and we always ask ourselves, is there a better way of doing this? I am confident that we will see more process optimizations as we go along. We plan to eventually build a juice concentrate making plant in Nigeria taking inputs from within Nigerian farms and processing it for Nigerians and the rest of the world.” The firm explained that the latest coconut processing machine is simple to use but prior to now only existed abroad, adding that the new machine safely takes out a step in the coconut production process and therefore reduces the need for heat treatment of coconuts. Given the energy-saving benefits, the machine is fast becoming the standard for coconut-based product manufacturers, as processors continue to seek ways to reduce their growing energy costs.