Nabs two women, two other notorious trans-border traffickers in Adamawa, 51 in Kano
About 2.7million tablets of tramadol 225mg weighing 1,650 kilogrammes worth N1.37 billion have been intercepted at  Apapa port in Lagos by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The consignment packed in 55 cartons of Tapentadol and Carisoprodol types of tramadol was seized during examination of a container marked SUDU 7538656 on Saturday, July 30, following credible intelligence. NDLEA’s Director, Media & Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, in a statement, yesterday, said the action comes on the heels of similar efforts by anti-narcotic officers at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Ikeja, that thwarted bids by drug traffickers to export various psychoactive substances to London, United Kingdom (UK) and Dubai, United Arab Emirate (UAE) through the Lagos airport in the past week. According to him, at least, five suspects have so far been arrested in connection to the attempts. He stressed that on Monday, July 25, a Dubai, UAE bound passenger Ms. Ebhodaghei Gloria Osenemeshen was intercepted during the outward clearance of travellers on Rwanda Air via Kigali to Dubai. Discovered in her luggage were sachets of tramadol 225mg concealed inside gari, a cassava product packed among other foodstuffs. She, however, claimed that the bag was given to her by someone who she spent the night in his house before coming to the airport to help deliver to another person in Dubai. The following day, Tuesday, July 26, a total of 50 blocks of cannabis sativa with a total weight of 27.1kg concealed inside a large quantity of crayfish going to London, UK as part of a consolidated cargo were seized at Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) export shed. Same day, a Dubai bound female passenger, Emebradu Previous Rachael, was arrested with 1.8kg cannabis packed inside bitter leaf in her luggage while attempting to board Rwanda Air flight to UAE via Kigali. The Delta-born mother of one said she was into selling of men’s wears before she decided to travel to Dubai to expand her clothing business. She claimed her ex-boyfriend, who lives in Dubai, requested her to bring the bag, which contains the illicit substance along with foodstuff. Suspect IN the same vein, operatives at the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) import shed of the airport on Saturday 30th July evacuated cartons of khat leaf with a total weight of 51.50kg. The consignment had earlier come in from Sierra Leone on Royal Air Moroc flight. In Adamawa State, four notorious drug dealers in Konkol and Belel, two villages at Nigeria- Cameroon border have been arrested for exporting and retailing tramadol and importing Diazepam into the country.  The suspects  are Kabiru Ahmadu; Eric Emil; Abdulmumini Bapetel and Alphonsus Yusuf. A total of 59.018kg tramadol, Diazepam, Exol-5, Cannabis Sativa and two jerry cans of formalin substance (Suck & Die) were recovered from them. In Kebbi, about 4,010 ampoules of pentazocine injection were seized on Friday, July 29, when a commercial vehicle marked Sokoto RBA 220 XA was intercepted along Yawuri-Kebbi road and two suspects: Muktar Yunusa, 26 and Lukman Aliyu, 30 were arrested. Similarly, a raid operation in Oko-Olowo area of Ilorin on Tuesday, July 26, led to the arrest of Onaolapo Zakariyau, 50, with 79kg Cannabis sativa. Also, in Abuja, about 90 blocks of cannabis (48.2kg) and 700 grammes of methamphetamine were intercepted at the Jabi motor park, while at least a suspect was arrested in connection with the drug exhibits. And in Kano, 51 suspects were arrested in a raid at Sky restaurant in Nasarawa area of the state on Friday, July 29.  The suspects were caught with various quantities of cannabis and codeine based cough syrup. In his reaction, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (Retd) commended the officers and men of Apapa seaport, MMIA, Adamawa, Kebbi, Kwara, Kano, and FCT Commands for their vigilance and commitment. He urged them and their colleagues across the country not to rest on their oars, but remain resolute in pursuit of the Agency’s goal of ridding Nigeria of illicit substances. 