Daniel Christopher and Grace Gabriel of Lagos State have won the men and women titles at the maiden South West Badminton Championship, which ended at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, at the weekend. At the championship organised by Lagos State Badminton Association, which drew a large turn out of spectators, Christopher beat Sola Abiodun of Oyo State in the men’s final, with Timilehin Ologose of Ondo State winning the third position. Grace outshined Amina Ilori of Ogun State to win the women category, with another Lagos player, Faridah Umah, taking the third place. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the event, President of the Nigeria Badminton Federation, Francis Orbih, commended Lagos State Badminton Association for organising the championship, which, he said, is aimed at discovering talents from the grassroots. Obih said that the Federation would continue creating more championships to expose players and sharpen their skills in badminton. “The championship is a welcome idea to fish out more talents from the regions. “Our key focus is also to assist the state associations to organise more championships at the highest level to keep the talents discovered busy to grow better in the sport. “Getting talents from various regions in the country would help raise the standard of Badminton in the country,” he said. Chairman of Lagos State Badminton Association, John Duru, said the South West Badminton Championship has created a platform for more players to be involved in the sport through the regional championship. “Lagos State Badminton Association organised the South West tourney to discover more talents in the region and also provide more platforms for athletes to exhibit their skills. “We are delighted the turn out was massive from the different states that participated. The state association is also focused on ensuring that the championship becomes a yearly event,” he said Lucky Ohireme of Ekiti State and Faridah Umah of Lagos State were awarded promising players of the event, which offered cash prizes, gifts and certificates of participation to outstanding players. Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti states participated in the championship. 