Wins most inovation MFB award
In an effort to ensure that both the unbanked and under-banked have access to financial services, Advans La Fayette Microfinance Bank has initiated a micro-health insurance product and education loan. The health insurance product is designed to ensure existing and prospective clients have access to high-quality and affordable health care services, while the education loan is designed to provide working and investment capital for school owners and to assist parents in paying their children’s school fees with ease. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Advans La Fayette, Gaetan Debuchy, said: “There are millions of Nigerians yet to tap into the immense benefits of health insurance. This plan will open a viable avenue for some of these people to come under the health insurance coverage, enabling them to sign up for one of the many health management organisations accommodated in the scheme.” Debuchy, who also commented on the firm’s recognition as the Most Innovative Microfinance Bank in Nigeria in the Global Brands Magazine and World Economic Magazine Awards 2022, said: “We are excited to win these awards. It further validates an innovative approach to providing customer-centric, affordable and transparent financial service.” “Over the years, we have a centre dour business on customer needs and feedback, which has helped us develop financial solutions from scratch to completion. We are pleased to be recognised as the most innovative and best microfinance bank in Nigeria. “said Head of Marketing and Communication, Kayode Abraham, The bank was also named the Best Microfinance Bank, Nigeria, in the Financial Derivatives Awards 2022 in recognition of its customer-centric credentials and innovation in product development, service delivery and brand management. Earlier in the year, Advans Nigeria upgraded its mobile banking app ‘Aspire’ to include users’ ability to request bank statements and control their daily transaction limit. Through the app, clients can receive notifications and share by referring their friends and loved ones. 