Sir: I have said it several times on the pages of newspapers, at forums, talk shows, televisions; schools, seminars, etc for over 20 years that I have a vision that Nigeria will become the mother of all nations: the last time was November 30, 2014 in Punch Newspaper. Topic: Nigeria will be great again, where I said: “Thus, let’s cherish what we have because I had a vision at the age of 19 that Nigeria would produce the youngest democratically elected president that would put an end to endemic and epidemic corruption, frustration and despair. He would not use only crude oil proceeds but also revenues from tourism, energy, agriculture and education as major income generators. I have a vision that Nigeria will become the mother of all nations.’’ I care to inform ahead that this TIME: It’s going to be tough for those who see corruption as a way of life, it’s going to be tough for those who care to get on through gross manipulation, it’s going to be tough for those who see nothing good in Nigeria to survive with us who have painstakingly served the country with no financial reward or what so ever, it’s going to be tough this time for those who live on bribery, because it will be hard enough for them to quickly change to the tune of the season of change; it’s going to be tough in 2023 elections for those who believed that politics and election is by money bag not by sagacity display, antecedent and tenacity of purpose with vision. It’s going to be tough this time for those who see gain in playing games with loving. It’s going to be tough this time for tough who see nothing good about our country before, it’s going to be tough for those who on daily basis reign curses on the name Nigeria. Nigeria’s socio-economic and political situation has left many of us feeling despondent. This time many youth will contribute meaningful to political growth of Nigeria which many visionary men of God will come together for a better Nigeria. This time many youthocrats will wake up from slumber and join politics to contest positions then properly implement political stability, industrialisation and education growth in the world. Here is the beginning of a new Nigeria. • Tunde Eso, president of Fix Nigeria Group and Originator of Youthocracy, a new system of government. 