The assertion that Nigeria is a blessed nation is a truism of monumental dimensions. And in spite of the disparaging acts of a few charlatans across the disciplines in the geo-polity, there still abound in the land, men of character and value, the thought of whose principles and actions ignite hope.
 
Symbols of consolation, they have by their deeds across time, reverently and consistently lifted the banners of genuine brotherhood, business integrity, dexterity, true statesmanship, exemplary industry, perseverance, and every other value of importance. And by a mixture of sheer grit and hard work, while steering their business brands, they have become creators of employment, bastions of treasured values, crusaders of sustainability and worthy legacies, incubators of financial substances, as well as society’s solid standard references for success and notable history makers.
 
In this pack is the cerebral entrepreneur, a rare gem with panache, Christian with infectious value system, and the possessor of many positively inspiring titles – Otunba Michael Olasubomi Balogun. Call him a symbol of the true Nigerian dream, and you would be stating the obvious. That dream encapsulates warm relationships with and accommodation for people of other ethnicities, religions and cultural values, patriotism and visioning, – vital ingredients in the founding and nurturing of enterprises, as well as the spirit of altruism and help for others in need. In all these, the beloved the Olori Omo-Oba Akile Ijebu, has quite an impressive record.  In obeying that submission, however, Otunba Balogun came face to face with hurdles, which without vision, commitment and the help of God, would have overwhelmed him.
 
In retrospect, he said: “It was Alhaji Otiti and the former Vice President, now late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, who were used directly by God to assist me in doing what many people thought was impossible. In the case of Otiti, he was a CBN deputy governor and someone in the Central Bank had just mentioned to me, ‘we cannot give you a license because you don’t have a technical partner’. Do you know my reply? I said, “God is my partner”. Though Otiti had reassured him by saying, “Subomi don’t worry, the CBN governor and I would arrange something provisional, which will enable you to run that bank and later, look for a foreign technical partner”, it did not happen exactly that way.
 
Here again, you cannot but agree that divinity was at work for him, ensuring the opening of another door upon the closing of one. Rather than Otiti, it was former Vice President, now late Chief Alex Ekwueme, who had been a friend well before the civil war, that God positioned for him and used. Balogun and his wife just resolved to ‘waylay’ Ekwueme in church. “At the Cathedral Church, my wife and I planned that when Alex was being led out that I would grab his cloth and my wife would grab that of his wife. When we made the moves, the security people with them thought something was wrong with us, but Alex looked back and said, “Subomi, Bimbola, what is happening?”
 
“Do you know what I told him? I said, ‘Mr. Vice President, why are you not giving me a license?’ So, Alex said we should come to see him, and he assured me that the following Thursday, I would get my license. By 3pm on that Thursday, a minister phoned me, and he said ‘Egbon (Big Brother), congratulations, the Vice President said your license has been approved’. True friendship, across ethnic lines had spoken, a friendship that had taken strong roots long before Otunba’s moment of need. 