All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in Kosofe Federal Constituency of Lagos State have declared their support for the presidential ambition of the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, urging Nigerians to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). The APC stalwarts made the unanimous decision during the official launch of Tinubu Support Group (TSG) at Ojota area of the state The APC leader in Epe Division, Alhaji Akanni Bamu, said Tinubu has been instrumental to the success of many people across the country politically. He added the time has come for party members to rally around the ex-governor to achieve his life-long aspiration, adding that it was payback time for Tinubu. Bamu urged party members to register and collect their PVCs to vote en-masse for Tinubu when the time comes. On his part, former Minister of Works, Adesegun Ogunlewe, also threw his weight behind Tinubu’s ambition, saying the APC leader has what it takes to govern Nigeria beyond 2023. He said Tinubu is the only person who has the capacity to step into President Muhammadu Buhari’s shoes when he leaves office in 2023. 
 
“My message is of two folds. First, since 2019, we have been saying that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will become Nigeria’s president. He is the only person who can face them. He will become the president by God’s grace.” In his speech, an APC chieftain, Wale Edun, said it is the time for Tinubu to become the country’s president, adding that the ex-governor has the capacity to govern Nigeria. “It is the time of a Yoruba man to become Nigeria’s president and we know it is our leader who has the capacity to do it. We are here because of the youth. You must register and collect your PVC now to elect our leader in the forthcoming election.” Also speaking, a third republic senator, Senator Anthony Adefuye, described Tinubu as the best man for the job, maintaining that Tinubu would succeed Buhari in 2023 against all odds, as he has paid his dues in Nigeria’s politics. He, however, berated some politicians in the southwest who are backstabbing Tinubu after riding on his back to become notable politicians. “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will become president in 2023 regardless of all obstacles. It is unfortunate that some people who call themselves Yorubas want to run against Tinubu, but it was Asiwaju, who made them who they are today.”