 Chadian peace talks started today in Doha, with the participation of the Transitional Military Council representatives and the armed groups in Chad.  The opening session was attended by HE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Sultan bin Saad Al Muraikhi, HE Prime Minister of the Transitional Government of the Republic of Chad Bahimi Badaki Albert, HE Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Libya Najla Al-Manqoush, HE Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat, HE Special Envoy of the Qatari Minister of Foreign Affairs for Combating Terrorism and Mediation in Settlement of Disputes Mutlaq bin Majid Al Qahtani, and a number of senior ministers, officials, diplomats and representatives of international and regional organizations. HE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Sultan bin Saad Al Muraikhi stressed that the Chadian peace negotiations that started in Doha today are Chadian-Chadian negotiations led by Chadians, and the State of Qatar in its capacity as a facilitator and host, will do everything to make it a success. His Excellency said in the State of Qatar's speech today at the opening session of the Chadian peace talks that the State of Qatar has friendly relations with the Republic of Chad and Qatar hope that these relations will continue and develop at various levels, so Qatar did not hesitate to accept the invitation of Chadian brothers to host these negotiations, which Qatar affirm that there are Chadian negotiations led by Chadians, and the State of Qatar in its capacity as a facilitator and host, will do everything to make it a success. His Excellency added that the State of Qatar is a peace-loving country and Qatari people are a peace-loving people and Qatar have no doubt that the brothers in Chad are also peace-loving, and therefore Qatar hope the success of negotiations here. His Excellency added that the hopes of many depend on these negotiations, and the people of Chad deserve to enjoy peace, security, stability, development and prosperity. Therefore, every effort must be made to achieve these goals for the benefit of this generation and future generations, and in order to achieve this, it is necessary to put the national interest above all interests, to place consensus and reconciliation as a priority above all priorities, and to be wise and realistic. His Excellency noted that Chad, like other developing countries, is facing major development challenges that require making every effort to move forward in the path of progress and prosperity. His Excellency said that there is no doubt that political and security stability is a prerequisite in view of the interrelationship between the factors of security, peace, development and human rights, and this is considered an additional incentive towards making all possible efforts for the success of the peace negotiations. His Excellency welcomed the participants in the Chadian peace talks, and said that it is Qatar's pleasure to host the talks in Doha, as it has always hosted many successful peace talks and negotiations that contributed to achieving security, stability and regional and international peace. His Excellency hoped that the Chadian peace negotiations in Doha would succeed in converging the point of views of the Chadian people, reach fruitful consensus, and achieve the aspirations of millions of Chadians, adding that he looks forward to the State of Qatar having an active role in the noble efforts leading to this end. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ministry of Foreign Affairs of The State of Qatar.