Lauds UNEC Law Faculty For Honouring Nweze Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, yesterday, listed the achievements of his administration in the state’s judiciary to facilitate the dispensation of justice. Speaking during the inauguration of the Justice Chima Centus Nweze Moot Court, at the Faculty of Law, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus (UNEC), Ugwuanyi pointed out that a central part of his commitment, as governor, “has not only been delivery of justice, but also its speedy delivery to all classes of people” without prejudice to socio-economic status or influence. He disclosed that his administration provided modern courtrooms equipped to ensure conducive atmosphere for efficient dispensation of justice. The government, he added, has within the last six years created two additional judicial divisions and six additional magisterial districts to decongest courts. The landmark projects are in addition to the building and equipping of 24 Magistrate Courts (16 of which are new) as well as the construction of 34 new model Customary Courts (two each) across the 17 local councils of the state, The Guardian gathered. Ugwuanyi, who commended the UNEC Faculty of Law for the provision of the moot court, named after Hon. Justice Chima Centus Nweze of the Supreme Court, and other facilities appropriate for students’ training, revealed: “There is, therefore, a resonance between the commissioning of a moot court today and the great strides my administration has made in the provision of modern courtrooms properly equipped to facilitate the dispensation of justice,” he said. In the past, the state government has supported the development of the faculty and will continue to do so whenever opportunity avails the state, the governor noted. Ugwuanyi also commended the Dean, Faculty of Law, UNEC, Dr. Samuel Nwatu, and his team for the drive to give the faculty a new face and restore its prime place as the first Faculty of Law in Nigeria. “A moot court is essentially a student’s fictional court used by most faculties of law to expose their students to real courtroom situations through simulated court proceedings, with students preparing and arguing cases before a pseudo or a make-believe judge. The presence of a moot court is always a strong indication that students are being prepared for post-school professional practice,” he said. The governor, therefore, stressed the significance of naming the moot court after Nweze, who he described as “a renowned jurist of our own time; an urbane, polished, elegant and cultured gentleman; an extremely cerebral and highly-respected Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria; an enigmatic jurisprudential personality of a character very much in short supply in our clime.” Congratulating Nweze on the honour, the governor applauded the Faculty of Law, UNEC naming the project as ‘The Justice Chima Centus Nweze Moot Court’, he charged the students to take full advantage of the facility in pursuit of their professional career. Responding, Nweze expressed gratitude to God for the honour done to him, and the faculty for making the event possible. 