Osun State High Court sitting in Osogbo will, on Monday, commence hearing on the case of alleged murder of a postgraduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, (OAU) Ile-Ife, Timothy Adegoke. The presiding Chief Judge of the state, Mrs. Adepele Ojo, also reserved ruling on the bail applications for Dr. Ramon Adedoyin, the owner of Hiltons Hotel, Ile-Ife, and six of his workers for same day. Adedoyin and members of his staff, Adedeji Adesola (23); Magdalene Chiefuna (24); Adeniyi Aderogba (37); Oluwale Lawrence (37); Oyetunde Kazeem (38); and Adebayo Kunle (35) had been remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre on Thursday after they pleaded not guilty to the 11 count-charge, which bothered on conspiracy, murder, attempted felony, unlawful interference with a dead body, altering and intent to destroy evidence. Counsels to defendants were able to file written addresses of bail applications for six defendants excluding the seventh defendant who was just added to the charge. They, however, prayed the court the permission to file a written address in respect of bail application for the 7th defendant, which the court did. At resumed hearing yesterday, the seventh defendant whose bail application was not tendered on Thursday because she was just added to the charge, approached the court, through her lawyer, with a written address in respect to her bail. Her counsel, Mr. Okon Edet Ita, urged the court to grant her bail pursuant to section 34(1), 35(1) for A and B and 36(5) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. Ita urged the court to consider the exhibit as exceptional circumstance in granting the application in favour of the 7th defendant. However, the prosecution counsel, M. O. Omosun objected the bail application considering the nature of the charge. Justice Ojo adjourned the matter till Monday, March 7, 2022 for ruling on all the bail applications and full hearing of the matter. The police didn’t bring any of the defendants to court yesterday even as heavy security presence was witnessed in the court premises.