Disturbing cases of abusive relationships between teachers and pupils do not mirror the Nigerian society as civilised. It is reprehensible that children entrusted in the care of tutors are maltreated and even tortured to death in classrooms! Both extremes are criminal acts that should warrant stiffer penalties to put school authorities and their regulators on their toes. It is time the Nigerian society reordered the school system and collectively said no to corporal punishments in schools.  In Delta State, a mother alleged that her 17-month-old baby was flogged “like a goat” for being “stubborn”! The child died some days later. A week earlier, a two-year-old child was lashed by a teacher, leading to multiple laceration marks on his body. These reports are coming a few weeks after a secondary school student, Sylvester Oromoni, died in controversial circumstances following allegations of torture by senior students. The jury is still out on that case. The blood-chilling murder of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar by her school-owner in Kano State and the death of a 13-year-old boy, Nuhu Yahya, at the Federal Government College, Kwali, in the Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja after being allegedly hit by his class teacher for not answering questions properly, are glaring cases of child-right abuses in the country. Those examples are just a few of those cases that made media limelight as many cases are unreported after being settled in hush circumstances between parents and school managements. But we cannot continue on this savage path in the 21st Century.   
  
For a society undergoing the throes of child-kidnapping, trafficking, abductions, a large army of out-of-school children and receding family values, the addition of culpable homicide in classrooms is one hostility too many. This signposts a failed society that cannot protect its children nor offer hope of a brighter tomorrow to the young ones. This attendant failure of leadership in the education sector is inexcusable.  