Christians construct boreholes in Zangon Kataf Muslim community Kaduna State Police Command has arrested 200 suspected bandits and 20 armed robbery suspects since January 2022. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Mohammed Jalige, announced this during a news briefing at the command’s headquarters in Kaduna, yesterday. Jalige also disclosed that the command recovered 18 AK-47 rifles, 2,000 live ammunition of different calibre, 11 pump action guns, 10 locally-fabricated pistols, 140 shotguns, 12-gauge cartridges, seven automobiles of different brands and nine motorcycles. “It is pertinent that we often have an interface with you to showcase our achievements in the fight against armed banditry, kidnapping and sundry crimes to the public. “These accomplishments are not without the assurances of your unalloyed support and commitment towards discharging our statutory responsibility. Thus, we seek a robust police-public partnership in the continuous fight against criminal elements, as the quest of securing the society is everybody’s business,” he said. He also noted that when the Commissioner of Police, Abdullahi Mudashiru, assumed office a few months ago, Kaduna was witnessing some daunting security challenges. “Notwithstanding the support of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Alkali Usman, in terms of manpower and logistics as well as the unwavering assistance from the state government, the command took some decisive approaches in tackling these challenges, and which ushered in a high level of calmness in our communities.” MEANWHILE promoting peaceful coexistence in Southern Kaduna, a Christian group, Tawani Family Foundation, has embarked on peacebuilding measures by constructing boreholes worth millions of naira for the Moslem community in Zangon Kataf Local Council. According to the leader of the foundation in the community, Rev. Dauda Tawani, the borehole at the Central Mosque, Fadan Kamantan, is expected to serve the neighbourhood. Speaking at the commencement of the drilling, the District Head of Fadan Kamantan, Sama’ila Tawani, said the project would promote love and peaceful coexistence among Muslims and Christians in the area. He explained that Dauda Tawani, a Christian leader and illustrious son of the area sponsored the project. The district head observed that the borehole was part of efforts to remember the legacies of their late father who is a cleric and to enhance brotherhood among Muslims and Christians in the area. Chief Imam of the Mosque, Rilwanu Isiyaka, expressed joy over the construction of the borehole, adding: “It signifies love and brotherhood.” 