…Arewa youths, south-south, south-east drum support for former governor Former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Tanko Al’ Makura has promised to give special consideration for people with disabilities if given the opportunity to become the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming national convention. He also said as a gender-sensitive person, he would adopt deliberate measures that would empower the womenfolk, saying he had done it when he was governor. He spoke at a meeting with APC caucus members of the House of Representatives in Abuja, yesterday where he assured of repositioning the party for quality leadership, once he takes over as chairman. “When I was governor, I had fifteen commissioners and as a gender-sensitive person, I gave special consideration to women by appointing five of them as commissioners. So, when I become chairman of the APC, I will repeat the same by empowering them. I proved it before and I will still do it,” he said. He recalled how the merger of political parties, which formed APC became possible, Al’Makura said the party had a credible and trusted candidate in President Muhamadu Buhari, hence its sweeping victory at the polls in 2015. His rallying point to coasting home to victory is the APC governors, National Assembly members, which is his current constituency, as well as youths, whom he said he understands their mentality, which makes it easy to reposition them having been a former student’s union leader while in school. Led by the Deputy Speaker of the House, Idris Wase, the lawmakers after asking the aspirant some questions endorsed him for the top job. Wase said Al’Makura’s humility, straightforwardness and the ability to deliver on the job were not in doubt having been proven, when he was governor of Nassarawa State. IN a related development, barely a week to the APC national convention, the Arewa youths in the South-south and Southeast have drummed support for Almakura, insisting that he is the best candidate to occupy the office of national chairman of the party. The group made public their resolution on Thursday in Port Harcourt, the River State capital. The spokesperson of the group, Alhaji Anas Yero commended the APC’s convention committee for putting all machinery in place to ensure that March 26, the convention is a reality and for zoning the position of the national chairmanship to the North-central. The group called on the party leadership at the national level to think properly on the election of the national chairmanship because it is key to the future of the party. The group argued that Senator Almakura played a vital role in the merger that gave birth to the APC in the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) in 2014. “As the only CPC governor, he played a key role in the then formation of the party and the victory of APC as the most credible election in the history of Nigeria and the emergence of Muhammad Buhari as the President. “It is only a competent chairman that can lead APC to victory and also addresses all the internal crises of different interest blocs within the party, which is peculiar and common to any big national party. “We the apex northern youth extraction within the Niger Delta and East, under the auspices of Arewa Youth South-south and Southeast support and endorse the candidature of Senator Almakura as the most competent, reliable and credible candidate suitable for the National Chairman. The group, however, noted that the vast political sagacity and experiences of Almakura have kept him aloof as an energetic, digital and flexible personality, who understands the dynamics of the present reality, even as his track records for decades and political credentials speak for his eligibility for the job.” The group said that they were in the know that since the formation of APC, only ACN and ANPP blocs have produced national chairmen, noting that is the right time for CPC to produce the national chairman of the party and the most suitable person is Almakura. The group appealed to the party leader to consider a digital leadership and not an aged person with analogue ideas in this present democratic dispensation. “We need a leader, who can tour the entire 36 states, including FCT in the upcoming 2023 general elections. “Almakura is the right man for the job, who is full of life, strength and diplomatic prowess to unite and resolve the internal crisis ahead of 2023. “We must know that the emergence of weak leader might affect the party come 2023 and survival of the party, “The present reality of our politics can only be handled by a dynamic leader, such as Almakura, who can steer the ship and carry all along and still lead the party to victory come 2023. “It will be wrong to give our party to an aged analogue individual or any with political godfather from the opposition, who still romance or can romance with opposition, thus subconsciously sell out the party.