The Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has stated that the absence of a national single window is inhibiting Nigeria’s ability to maximise its export potential globally. Indeed, the council stated that many developed economies of the world are taking advantage of different single-window recommendations to facilitate their trade activities across the globe. The Regional Coordinator, South West, NEPC, Lagos, Samuel Oyeyipo, at a sensitisation workshop on encouraging private sector participation in meetings of National Trade Facilitation Bodies (NTFBs), said the workshop on trade facilitation was aimed at enabling participants to access information needed to enable them to appreciate the need to participate in meetings of NFTBs. Represented by the Director, Office of the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, NEPC, Ms. Estelle Igwe, stated on the sidelines of the workshop that since the introduction of a single-window in 2003, Nigeria is yet to have a national single window. In his words: “The Nigeria Trade Facilitation Procedures went moribund and because we are not a party to any single window recommendations that are being developed, this is why we do not have a national single window.” According to him, NTFBs were very vital in trade facilitation, noting that in some developed economies, these bodies had become independent agencies. “I consider this workshop critical as it would afford us the opportunity to exchange ideas as well as map out strategies that would enhance private sector participation in various trade facilitation meetings and programmes in the future. These responsibilities we must take with all seriousness they deserve. “This workshop is designed to be participatory so as to enable some of us that have participated in previous meetings of this nature to share our field experiences with a view to enriching the knowledge of participants here,” he added. Also speaking, the Deputy Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Lagos chapter, Shakin Agbeyewa, said the workshop was apt and came at a time when lots of food products were being wasted at the farm gates. He said the programme would avail participants the opportunity to understand how vital NTFBs were to boosting cross-border transactions while also increasing the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).