It was 11 days of cultural diplomacy and musical performances, as American pianist, Pauline Yang, toured Nigerian cities, serenading guests with the best of classical music. Starting from Abuja, Yang ended in Lagos, where she served a good recipe of classical music that left the audience yearning for more. The Lagos performance, which was held in partnership with the US Mission to Nigeria, at the Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, had Mary Beth-Leonard, US ambassador to Nigeria, in a moving rendition of the Nigerian anthem with the flute. The envoy then combined with Yang for a duet of Faure Sicilienne from Pelleas et Melisandre. Yang’s selection of pieces included a delightful mix of composers, styles and eras from the piano literature featuring works by Bach, Scarlatti, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Rachmaninoff, Schumann, Liszt, and Bolcom. Speaking with The Guardian after her scintillating performance, Yang said, “it has been an immense honour and joy to be here. This is my first time in West Africa and I’m having the best time. I have been so energised by Nigerians, their energy and joy. I am also enamored by the culture and people.” Admitting that she was overwhelmed by the audience’s reaction to her performance, Yang said she is aware classical music isn’t so popular in Nigeria and wasn’t sure how she would be received. “But the enthusiastic and warm response from the audience gladdened my heart and I hope that I have played a small part in introducing classical music to those that might not have heard it before. I hope I can come back again to Nigeria in the nearest future as there is more I would love to do,” she said. Deputy Public Affairs Officer at the US Consulate, Lagos, Jennifer Foltz, who represented the ambassador, said that as part of their cultural programming, they often bring different American artistes to Nigeria to engage with varying audiences and different purposes. Foltz said Yang is meeting with music students all over the country and speaking on the importance of musical education as well as a series of concerts open to the general public. “I believe Nigerians enjoy different types of music and its great to introduce something different from what people normally hear but the goal is to encourage young people on the importance of pursuing their passions, musical education and education as a whole Yang is in Nigeria on an 11-day visit that is seeing her perform and conduct workshops across Abuja, Lagos, and Ibadan.” The classical pianist won her first international competition at the age of seven and holds a master’s degree in piano performance from the University of Southern California (USC) and a degree in international relations from Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. 