President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday inaugurated an 80-unit housing estate in Sokoto aimed at improving living conditions and ameliorating housing deficit in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the housing units, built by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, are made of 48 two-bedroom units, 28 units of three-bedrooms and four units of one-bedroom. Buhari, represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Maigari Dingyadi, described the project as a “fulfillment of the change that the All Progressives Congess (APC) promised Nigerians in 2015. “This housing estate is an example of the fulfillment of that promise of change in 2015, with the support of Sokoto government, which provided the land. “It’s a good example of some of the developmental possibilities that inter-governmental collaboration can produce through collaborative effort. “The progressive ideal of our government seeks to achieve one primary objective, which is to improve the human condition,” he said. The president said he was optimistic that with the provision of more land the government could do more for Nigerians. In his remark, the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, said that the Federal Government had delivered similar projects in 34 states with the support of the state governors who provided the land. Fashola, represented by the Director, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the ministry, Mrs Olayomi Oshintomi, said that the housing estate was the outcome of a national survey conducted to find out the type of houses Nigerians desired. “We have offered these housing units to members of the general public in a non-discriminatory way by opening the national housing portal to ensure that interested individuals are not inhibited by any artificial obstacles. “Allocations will be made online on the basis of those who apply and pay on first-come-first served basis,” he said. The minister thanked the contractors, suppliers and all those employed in the building process for their contributions to nation building. Earlier, Gov. Aminu Tambuwal described the project as a landmark achievement geared toward uplifting the living condition of Nigerians. Tambuwal, represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Manniru Dan’iya, said that the state government had also built mass housing schemes for low income earners. The governor said that the construction was also for owner-occupier scheme which provided houses to government workers, including some Federal Government staff and land allocations. “The state government has completed 500 housing units at Kalambaina for civil servants and the general public who have been allocated. “An additional 500 houses are under construction at Gidan Salanke area and are nearing completion. “In addition, the state government has provided land to the Federal Mortgage Bank for the construction of 100 houses at Sokoto New City, which has reached 80 per cent completion. “Land has also been provided to STC Construction Company to construct 100 residential quarters at the same location ” Tambuwal said. He added the state government had approved the requests for land by some Federal Government agencies, either construct office accommodation or residential houses for their staff. The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, commended the laudable project and urged authorities to ensure transparent dealings in allocations for the benefit of all categories of Nigerians. Sa’ad, represented by Ardon Shuni, Alhaji Muhammadu Harande, called for more of such projects that would impact positively on the lives of Nigerians. 