There are indications that Ghana would be compelled to move the home leg of their Qatar 2022 World Cup final qualifier against Nigeria to Baba Yara Stadium, Kumasi, following doubts over the state of Cape Coast Stadium, earlier earmarked for the tie. CAF officials on Monday inspected the Baba Yara Stadium, which is now the alternate venue, following viral reports that the Cape Coast Stadium was in bad shape. Cape Coast Stadium hosted all of Ghana’s Cameroun 2022 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers and their previous World Cup elimination matches. But the stadium, which was rated as Ghana’s current best venue by CAF, suffered a huge blow when government hosted its March 6 Independence parade there, with students, workers and security horses trampling on the pitch. Pictures of the damage to the pitch went viral shortly after the Independence celebrations, prompting CAF to raise concerns over its ability to host the game. To ensure that the match was not moved to another country as being touted in some quarters, Ghana Football Association and the National Sports Authority went to work, seeking to get the Cape Coast Stadium ready for their clash against Nigeria. But reports yesterday indicate that the Ghana FA has started preparing the Kumasi stadium as alternate venue for the game that will decide which, among the two countries, qualifies for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Speculations were rife that African football governing body, CAF, was planning to move the match to either Benin Republic or Morocco since Cape Coast Stadium is the only venue registered by Ghana for the tie. However, Ghanaian journalist, Benedict Mensah, dismissed the speculation, saying the country would not want to be denied the home advantage playing in the country would give the Black Stars. He said CAF was expected to release its findings on the two stadiums later yesterday or early this morning, adding that the Ghana government has put in so much to ensure the game is played in the country. He added: “The Kumasi Stadium was recently refurbished for Asante Kotoko matches and so, it should be good to host the qualifier. It has been hosting big games in recent times, and the game against Nigeria will not be coming too early for it to accommodate.”