Clearly therefore, no major decision can be taken nor can any action or law be enforced if it is contrary to the Constitution. Section 1 (3) cemented the power and force of the Constitution by stating without equivocation that “if any other law is inconsistent with the provisions of this Constitution, this Constitution shall prevail, and that other law shall to the extent of the inconsistency be void”. No one can quarrel with this at all, unless we do not want to run a Federation. The issue however is whether section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act is affected in any way by section 1 (1), (2) and (3) of the Constitution. The proponents of the unconstitutionality of section 84 (12) state that the Constitution has already covered the field for those who hold public office and seek elective office. They rely on the following provisions of the Constitution.
 
For the President, Section 137 (1) (g) of the 1999 Constitution provides that:
“A person shall not be qualified for election to the office of the President if being a person employed in the civil or public service of the Federation or of any State, he has not resigned, withdrawn or retired from the employment at least thirty days before the date of the election.”  Once you are no longer satisfied with your employment in the public or civil service and you seek to become a politician, then you should quit and face the game of politics squarely. That is the purport of the sections of the Constitution stated above. The next issue is to determine or define those who are engaged or employed in the civil or public service of the Federation or of a State. The interpretation section of the Constitution is section 318 (1) of the Constitution and it defines civil or public service as follows:
 
“Civil service of the Federation” means the service of the Federation in a civil capacity as staff of the office of the President, Vice-President, a ministry or department of the Government of the Federation assigned with the responsibility for any business of the Government of the Federation.” 