COCiN lauds gov for peace in Plateau Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has promised to continue the implementation of town planning policies to improve the living condition of citizens in cities and towns of the state. Governor Lalong, who received President of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Olutoye Ayinde, and his entourage in Government House, Jos, yesterday, said the rescue administration placed so much emphasis on the development of infrastructure in the state. Acknowledging the level of unplanned development in the state, as well as abuse of various plans by citizens, the governor promised to continue enforcing all town planning policies and regulations to ensure that public safety, orderliness and aesthetics are achieved for the common good. According to a statement by the Director of Press and Public Affairs to the Governor, Dr. Makut Macham, Plateau is naturally endowed with good weather and aesthetics that cannot be enjoyed in a chaotic situation, where people build indiscriminately without adherence to regulations. He disclosed that the government would soon flag off the construction of a new interchange at the British-America Junction, as part of its urban renewal and plan to deal with high traffic along that corridor. The NITP President had said that the absence of planning caused serious problems to the society, resulting in disruptions, congestion, diseases, insecurity and other challenges. He urged the governor to domesticate and implement the Urban and Regional Planning Act 2004, pledging the support and collaboration of the institute. MEANWHILE, the Church of Christ in Nations (COCiN) has commended Lalong for his effort at peacebuilding and reconciliation, which is accelerating development in the state. The new President of COCiN, Dr. Amos Mohzo, who led the leadership of the Church on a courtesy visit to Government House at Little Rayfield, Jos, yesterday, said “the governor has done well” in administering the state in a godly manner, which has made it possible for citizens to coexist in peace. This, he said, made it possible for many events to take place in the state without fear and intimidation, including the recent by-elections in some parts of the state. 