The Federal Government on Thursday, disclosed that the Second Niger Bridge, which was billed for completion last month (February) but delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown and EndSARS protests, is already at 91 percent completion. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, made the disclosure during the Special Weekly media briefing anchored by the Presidential Communications Team at the State House, Abuja. Held inside the Council Chamber briefing room, the forum enabled the Minister to provide updates on key collaborations between the Federal Government and the State Governments in the implementation of some of the major reforms being executed by the Ministry and the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF). According to Fashola, 1,486 people have been directly employed for the Second Niger Bridge while another 8,110 indirect jobs have been created. The Minister put the cost of three major PIDF projects at N1.3 trillion. The projects are Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano Expressway (375km): N797 billion, Second Niger Bridge (11.59km): N206 billion and Lagos-Ibadan Expressway (127km): N310 billion. On when the projects will be completed, Fashola said that the Lagos Ibadan Express Way and Second Niger Bridge were on course, just as he assured that the work will be completed this year 2022, while the main Carriageway of the Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano expressway is scheduled for completion by Q2 2023, adding, however, that the ancillary works will be completed on a later date. He was not specific. Meanwhile, the minister has warned motorists to shelve the temptation to exceed 100km/h on completed roads, to avoid crashes. He said the warning became necessary following disturbing messages he has received from some of the road users who, though commended the quality of work done, however, said they were speeding at 150 100km/h due to the smoothness of the roads. He also decried the sale of Premium Motor Spirit and other petroleum products on the roads, saying the development makes it easier for the roads to deteriorate and give way to the elements faster. 