On Tuesday, February 22, 2022, the House of Representatives Committee on Pensions held a public hearing on two bills for the amendment of the Pension Reform Act 2014. While the first, “A Bill for an Act to amend the Pension Reform Act 2014 to provide for the exemption of the Nigerian Police Force from the Contributory Pension Scheme and for related matters”, was sponsored by Hon. Francis Ejiroghene Waive, the second, “A Bill for an Act to amend Sections 1 (c), 7(2), 8(1), 18, 24 and 99 of the Pension Reform Act 2014 providing that a pensioner shall receive at least 75 per cent of his retirement benefits immediately upon retirement and criminalise the undue delay in the payment of pension,” was sponsored by Hon. Jimoh Aremu Olaifa.
  
It was all déjà vu. The issues at stake at the public hearing are as old as the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) itself. But here, we will deal exclusively with the first Bill which has to do with exemption of the Police from the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). To appreciate the renewed agitation for exemption, certain facts have to be put in context. When the Pension Reform Act 2004 was enacted, the idea was to have a new pension scheme that is not only contributory and fully funded but also privately managed, with funds and assets based on individual accounts under third party custody. The Pension Reform Act established a mandatory CPS for workers in both the public and private sectors. The overarching goal was to ensure, unlike in the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS), that everyone who has worked receives retirement benefits as and when due.
  
But the government, which modelled the country’s CPS after the Chilean scheme that exempted both the armed forces and the police, insisted that the police will be part of its own scheme while exempting the Army, the Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA) and the Department of State Security (DSS). The police hierarchy kicked, preferring exemption. But the Federal Government demurred, insisting that the institution was so big that it would not be in the best interest of the country to let policemen out of the pension loop.  In a memorandum submitted at the public hearing by its executive director, Takor Ivor, CPRA stated that the CPS is the most guaranteed law in the country that protects policemen from old age poverty and destitution as well as financial protection for members of their families in the event of death of their bread winners.
  
The Pension Reform Act (2014) created a ready pool of funds that will be used in the payment of pension for life to an officer. It also ensures that payment of pension to retiring officers is no longer left at the mercy of annual budgets. What the National Assembly needs to do is ensure that in line with the provision of Section 4(4(a) of the Act, the Federal Government starts paying police retirees 300 per cent of their last annual gross pay as gratuity on retirement.
  
When this is done, their contributions in the RSA can then be utilized for the payment of pension. This will boost monthly take home pension. The problem is the low pension package and not the CPS. Exiting the scheme, therefore, does not mitigate the problem. It rather compounds it because the Contributory Pension Scheme remains the safest safeguard against inclement retirement weather.