It was not with any form of exultation or ululation that patriots read about the fall of DCP Abba Kyari from national grace to international disgrace. Perhaps his ‘enemies’ celebrated this national tragedy, this man brought down by greed and hubris in a dramatic manner. What was befuddling was how and why he complicated his already tainted picture with the drug escapade in a most messy manner. How and why did he fall into such a trap, being recorded inside a car negotiating a rotten deal? Was it a last-ditch attempt to hit it big and quit the stage into private life where he would swim ad infinitum in the wealth accumulated from service to the morality of the underworld? Was it a feeling of invincibility accumulated over the decades of dubious public service, not being found out, not being caught, fully protected by the powers-that-be?
 
It is not a good story. Yet it happened. And it could happen again. Who knows how many super-cops are out there in the dark, murky rooms of the Nigeria Police or other security agencies, extorting citizens, killing at random to bury all traces of their callous deeds? For as we know, too many people have lost their lives to extra-judicial killings in the land. These are men and women who have no voice. No power. No money. All they have is fear. Fear of the police. Fear for their lives. If the anti-SARS movement had succeeded in drawing the attention of government to the impunity, self-serving actions of some men of the Nigeria Police, would this slap-in-face have come to the open?  Intercepting hard drugs. Seizing them and replacing them with dummies. Re-selling the seized stuff to the society. What cover supersedes that of a law enforcer who in the cover of the dark breaks the law? Who polices the police? A nation that has no police becomes a lawless nation. A policeman who is not policed by his conscience or by the institution he serves becomes a lawless officer. Of such officers we must beware. How many Abba Kyaris are still out there? 