 US actor Will Smith (R) slaps US actor Chris Rock onstage during the 94th Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, California on March 27, 2022. (Photo by Robyn Beck / AFP) Chris Rock’s brother Tony Rock has spoken up following the headline-making slap Will Smith gave his brother. Taking to Twitter, Tony defended his brother nothing that Smith’s public apology wasn’t going to cut it. No https://t.co/NZ3VAKLAKu — Tony Rock (@TONYROCK) March 30, 2022 Tony told his Twitter followers on Tuesday that he’s “waiting” for Smith to speak directly to his brother and family after a fan pointed out Smith’s relationship with the comedian over the years. His statement shut down claims that Chris and Will had reconciled after the show. Chris Rock, on the other hand, has not yet addressed the incident, only declining to press charges. But he would make his first public appearance since the incident on Wednesday night, performing at Boston’s Wilbur Theater as part of his Ego Death World Tour. Will Smith had slapped Chris Rock on the stage of the Oscars after the comedian made a “G.I. Jane” joke targeted at his wife, Jada. He first apologized for the incident during the Oscars on Sunday in a tear-filled speech while accepting his Best Actor trophy. Will Smith also directly apologised to Chris Rock for the first time since the incident in an Instagram post on Monday. “Violence in all of its forms is poisonous and destructive. My behavior at last night’s Academy Awards was unacceptable and inexcusable,” Smith wrote. “Jokes at my expense are a part of the job, but a joke about Jada’s medical condition was too much for me to bear and I reacted emotionally.” “I would like to publicly apologize to you, Chris. I was out of line and I was wrong. I am embarrassed and my actions were not indicative of the man I want to be,” he continued. “There is no place for violence in a world of love and kindness.” His wife Jada shared her first post since the incident on Tuesday morning that read, “This is a season for healing and I’m here for it.”