President Muhammadu Buhari has commissioned 76 housing units worth N1.7 billion in Lokoja, Kogi State. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Muhammad Abubakar (second right), representing President Muhammadu Buhari, and others at the commissioning of houses completed under the National Housing Programme (NHP) Phase I at Rigachikun, Kaduna State… yesterday.  The road, drainage and asphalt finishing contract was awarded at N315,393,300 while electricity supply, installation of 500kva transformer cost N83,839,245 and motorised borehole N91,294,770. Represented by the Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Ramatu Aliyu, during the commissioning of the National Housing Programme (NHP) in Lokoja, yesterday, the President described the housing estate as part of the fulfilment of the promise of change he made during his electioneering. He added that with the support of the Kogi government, the land, which was once left fallow, came alive to shelter ordinary Nigerians. Buhari stressed: “Of course, the progressive ideals of our government seeks to achieve one primary objective, which is to improve the human condition “The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), which drive our economy, won the contracts to build these houses. Not only did their successful bids offer an opportunity for these companies and their employees, through them, but we have also unleashed a value chain of economic activities that improved the conditions of the ordinary Nigerian,” he said. He directed that 22 units of the houses be reserved for the 1994 Olympic medalists, to encourage others that wish to sacrifice for their country. RELATEDLY, the North East Development Commission (NEDC) has presented a 10-year development master plan to critical stakeholders in Gombe State for their input in the region’s development. The Managing Director, Mohammed Alkali, at a  meeting with Gombe stakeholders on the North East Stabilisation and Development Master Plan (NESDMP), yesterday, said the project base would be according to the needs assessment of the zone. The proposed 10-year NESDMP, he said, would encompass the relevant aspects of development plans and policies of Gombe government and those of other partners. According to him, the plan shall contain programmes and schemes that promote and facilitate the physical and socio-economic development of the North East as well as estimates of the time and costs of implementing the programmes and schemes. Meanwhile, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and all governmental arms, including traditional rulers, have commended the NEDC for living above board amid the threat of politics.