The founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) yesterday, asked traditional rulers in Ekiti State to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari to visit the institution, especially the multi-system hospital, to see things for himself. He said that former and serving Heads of State and Presidents, including Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd), Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, had visited the university to see things for themselves. Babalola stated this during the matriculation  programme of the university for the 2021/22 academic session and the ceremony marking the fourth anniversary of the establishment of the 400-bed Afe Babalola Multi-system Hospital (AMSH) held at the university campus yesterday. He said: “I challenge the council of traditional rulers to go and pass a resolution and ask President Muhammadu Buhari to come and see what we are doing. “Gowon, Obasanjo and Jonathan were here to see what we do. However, despite invitation to Buhari, he has not come  or sent a representative. “This university has been described as a model for others. The multi-system hospital has been described as a world-class hospital. I think this should attract a head of state. This is the only way we can get it right in the country.” Babalola, who congratulated the parents and the matriculating students for choosing ABUAD, which offers good and reliable certificates, as well as infusing good morals in students, further said: “ABUAD was not just set up for certificate acquisition, we also mould character. I know that we can only get it right in this country in terms of functional education and if universities are places where you get certificates, as well as promote good character. “That is why whatever certificate you get here will open doors for you because we believe in character building. Without character, education will be useless.” The ABUAD founder promised  to ensure that AMSH stops medical tourism in Nigeria by acquiring every equipment and engaging competent personnel. Meanwhile, the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, while commending the hospital for saving the lives of thousands of Ekiti residents, said the institution had contributed to the economic and social well-being of the populace. He said: “The value of equipment put here and the number of professionals showed that AMSH is one hospital that can be relied on. Whatever you can get in Indian hospitals, you will get here in AMSH. Afe Babalola is contributing his quota, doing well for humanity and giving hope to the hopeless.”