• Terrorism in N’East will end before 2023, army reassures
• LG boss urges prayers at Ramadan to stop banditry Saturday’s invasion of Kaduna International Airport by terrorists is a clear confirmation that Nigeria’s security structure has been conceded to criminals, says Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement, yesterday, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, alleged that the refusal and/or failure of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to take action on the airport attack because of “a jamboree in Abuja in the name of a National Convention confirms that the Buhari administration has conceded sovereignty over parts of our country to terrorists.” PDP said the last invasion by terrorists at a time outlaws, kidnappers and marauders had taken over the highways and railways further heightened security concerns that “nowhere is safe” in Nigeria under the APC. The major opposition party also said: “Buhari’s nonchalant disposition to this grave security challenge indicates that his administration is unable, unwilling and/or complicit in this particular attack as well as various other acts of terrorism in our country. “It is indefensibly suspicious that while an international airport in our country was under attack by over 200 terrorists, with many Nigerians being held hostage and traumatised, Buhari and the APC continued in their carnival in Abuja without acknowledging or expressing concern. Is this not a case of ‘Buhari fiddles while Nigeria burns’?” HOWEVER, the Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), Maj-Gen. Christopher Musa, has said that kidnapping and other crimes in the North East region will end this year. Already, over 50,800 repentant terrorists and their families have reportedly surrendered to the army in Borno and Yobe states.
Musa disclosed this at the weekend, in Maiduguri, while reeling out the adopted strategies to end the war to journalists. “Our professional approach to end this war is yielding results,” he said, adding that the narratives were fast changing to the excitement of security agencies. According to him, the morale of officers and soldiers has been raised to meet the deadline of the terrorism war in Borno, Adamawa, Bauchi, Taraba, Gombe and Yobe states. MEANWHILE, the people of Mariga Local Council of Niger State, particularly Muslim faithful have been urged to use the Ramadan period to intensify prayers and Taqwa for the Almighty Allah to bring an end to all security challenges confronting the state. The acting Chairman, Abbas Garba, said only prayers by all religions and total submission to God will end insecurity in the state. Garba also called on the people of Mariga to continue to live together peacefully irrespective of their ethnic and religious differences.