Nigerian women in the capital market have been urged to add more value and strengthen their contributions towards achieving organisational goals to bridge the inequality gap with their male counterparts. Some women in the capital market have distinguished themselves from different perspectives, including exceptional leadership.
To this effect, the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI) stressed the need for these women to generally exhibit a strong level of self-confidence to enable them to display their skills and enhance public acceptability. In a paper entitled: ‘Supporting Equity for the Next Generation: Women in Nigeria Capital Market ‘, during the CISI Nigeria Member Forum, Assistant Director, Global Business Development, CISI, Helena Wilson, explained that gender equity contributes to economic growth and expands stock of human capital, thereby, fostering diversity of thought. Wilson noted that there is a need for women to aspire to serve at the senior level and maintain professional balancing in the workplace. “We must move from equality to equity. Buy in at senior level, support mentoring, work in a hybrid place, ensure flexibility, reduce banter and recognise that we need to tackle these problems earlier in our careers.” said Wilson. Corroborating her, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Cowry Securities, Nkoli Edoka, highlighted the need for women to have  self-confidence to compete with their male counterparts. Edoka also advocated fairness in the type of work schedule allocated to women by considering the uniqueness of a woman.
She argued that if the enabling environment is created for women, they would be at par with men in terms of performance. Executive Director, Teakwood Advisory Partners, Florence Umoh, advised women to challenge themselves on the values that could have multiplier effects on the corporate objectives. She emphasised the need for women to engage in personal development to enable them to effect positive changes in the operating environment. In his closing remarks, CISI Country Representative in Nigeria, Dr. John Osuoha urged CISI members in Nigeria to leverage opportunities that the qualifications provide and become an agent of change in their various companies.