• Confirms seven nominees for MPC membership
• FG considering compliance with judgment, says Malami The Senate, yesterday, resolved to appeal against the ruling of a Federal High Court in Abia State, which nullified Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022. The resolution followed a motion sponsored by Senator George Seikibo and 81 others on the judgment of the Federal High Court, Umuhia on suit number, FHC/UM/CS/26/2022. The contentious section requires ministers, heads of agencies and other political appointees to resign before participating in primaries, conventions and other electoral activities. The court, had, last Friday, held the section was a violation of certain provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). It specifically asked the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to delete the section from the Act But in a unanimous resolution, the lawmakers agreed to head for the appellate court to set aside the judgment. HOWEVER, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, said the relevant government agencies were working towards compliance with the court ruling on Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act. Fielding questions from newsmen after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, the AGF said the deletion of the section was a work in progress, adding that it is being considered as such. BESIDES, the Red Chamber has confirmed seven nominees for Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) membership. The MPC is an arm of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) responsible for fixing interest rates. The confirmation was sequel to the consideration of a report by the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions presented by its chairman, Uba Sani. President Muhammadu Buhari had in a February 23, 2022 correspondence, said the confirmation and membership renewal request was made in accordance with Section 12(4) of the Central Bank Act (2007). It includes two new members and five returning ones. The new members are Prof. Mohammed Salisu and Dr. Mo’Omamegbe. Those whose membership have been renewed are Prof. Michael Obadan, Prof. Festus Adeola Adenikinju, Prof. Aliyu Sanusi Rafindadi, Dr. Robert Asogwa and Aliyu Ahmed. Sani said the nominees possess sufficient academic qualification, technical knowledge and professional experience to serve as members of the committee. The senator said his panel did not receive any petition challenging the nominations, adding that the nominees had been cleared by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Department of State Services (DSS) and secured the Code of Conduct’s acknowledgement slip. He added that one of the nominees, Ahmed, is the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and would, thus, serve as the representative of the ministry, as required by extant laws. 