Expectations from Balogun are high, says Olagoke
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, paid a courtesy visit on the Olubadan-designate, Dr. Lekan Balogun, with a promise that he would prostrate for the newly-appointed monarch on his next visit. Obasanjo, who breezed into the Alarere residence of the newly-appointed Olubadan without entourage, was led by former Chairman, Ibadan North-East Local Council of Oyo State, Arole Gbenga Adewusi. He was said to have joined the monarch on the dining table on his arrival after which they both retired to a private corner for tete-a-tete with the visitor asking his guide (Arole) and one of the personal aides of the Olubadan-designate to excuse them. It was gathered that the private chat did not last for more than five minutes after which the former President and his host exchanged banters. It was while leaving the monarch that Obasanjo reminded the monarch that he had not prostrated for him with a promise to do so when next he visits him. Balogun, in his reaction, said it was a meeting of brothers, recalling that the former President had sent emissaries to him some weeks ago to congratulate him. He declined to disclose what they discussed privately but said: “Though the visit was short, it was fruitful and very confidential.” MEANWHILE, founder and spiritual leader of Shafaudeen in Islam and former Senior Lecturer, Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Prof. Sabitu Olagoke Ariyo, yesterday charged the Olubadan-designate to deploy his past records into his reign towards making Ibadan far better than he met it. Olagoke gave the charge during his visit to the newly–appointed Olubadan, noting that people’s expectations from the monarch are very high. The religious leader, who described Balogun as a dynamic personality, said the new Olubadan could not afford to fail but to meet the people’s aspiration and yearnings. He prayed for good health, peaceful and long reign for the new monarch as he presented to him different books authored by him.
Balogun thanked the religious leader for his advice, which he promised to guard jealously and for the various books he presented to him. He asked him to continue praying for him and not to be too far away from him.