The common social concerns are the high mortality rate, poverty and malnutrition in the country. But for the concerns that bother on health, the advice is usually to reduce fats, cholesterols and sugar intake, improve on nutrition and good diet, do not smoke and so on to avoid health issues. However, the fact is food is about health and healthy living, but less is heard about the need to promote organic food eating, in a world where innovation is now widespread in Agric-Business and farming, with the genetical engineering of crops and foods.
 
Genetically Modified (GM) foods are foods that are produced from Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) that have had their DNA altered through genetic engineering. Genetic modification, also known as genetic engineering, simply means having the DNA of crops and foodstuffs altered using genes from other plants or animals to achieve specific aims. Scientists take the gene for the desired trait in one plant or animal, and they insert that gene into a cell of another plant or animal. So, with this in mind, the natural ways of growing crops and even mating by animals can be bypassed for commercial and business gains. This concept is quite different from the conventional gestation period and natural farm harvest time.
 
Scientists take the gene or seed for a desired trait (colour, flavour, texture, early maturation, greater yield and bigger output) in one plant or animal, and they insert that gene into a cell of another plant or animal to produce the specific and desired results. I am made to understand that the benefits of this innovation in agriculture include better taste, a longer shelf life, better nutrition and quality; increased profit for growers; virus and insect resistance; herbicide tolerance, and increased food yield to alleviate hunger. Furthermore, the key benefit of this trend is mainly for multiple productions of food, though many fish or chicken can mature more quickly with this innovation as well, with the hope of lowering costs, with fewer environmental resources (such as water and fertilizer). The big question and concern are who regulates this process in the country? A place where shortcuts, dumping, profiteering at every cost are the order of the day, this should be a cause for concern. I have seen first-generation products such as oranges without seeds, corn with less harvesting period, plastic-looking tomatoes, bananas and plantains looking like toys, chicken ready for consumption in three months and a host of others mainly due to commercialisation. The main motive is for the profitability of the businesses that are involved in the enhanced food production.  