• Bello denies ‘handover letter’ as Akeredolu says no lobbying can stop convention
• Tinubu warns against ‘descent into rank of other parties’
• Northern group states why it’s backing former gov Yobe State Governor and former Chairman, Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Mai Mala Buni, will make a triumphal return to Nigeria on Monday, if some of his supporters make good their promise. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Solidarity Forum, yesterday, urged members of the party to ignore Buni’s purported sack, saying preparations are in top gear to welcome him back from his medical trip and usher him to the party’s secretariat next week Monday. Speaking to the journalists, yesterday, convener of the group, Tope Musbau, said certain elements in the party had resorted to blackmail and campaign of calumny to paint the governor in bad light before President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “Everyone in Nigeria knows Buni’s pedigree as a forthright leader of the APC. We are not surprised that evil forces that are scared of light want him out at all cost. “Buni is too decent for the people leading this campaign against him. He will not fall for their antics as all they want is to rubbish Mr. President’s legacies.” He said millions of APC supporters across the 36 states would convene at the nation’s capital to welcome Buni as he continues to lead the party to greatness. According to him, “Our leader deserves a grand return, and that’s what we have planned for him. We will sound the trumpets, hit the drums, sing and dance, because what they planned for Buni didn’t materialise. “He will be ushered back to his office by over 10 million party faithful who truly know his worth and value his quality leadership. We are appealing to party stalwarts to converge in their numbers on Monday. Buni’s return is a victory for our party, victory for Nigeria and victory for democracy.” THIS came as Acting CECPC Chairman, Governor Abubakar Bello, yesterday, said he was not aware of any handover of power letter addressed to him by Buni. Bello, who fielded questions from reporters at the national secretariat, expressed surprise over the existence of a letter to that effect, dated February 28, 2022, trending on social media. The letter purportedly signed by Buni and addressed to Bello and members of the caretaker committee reads in part: “This is to, please, inform you that I will be embarking on a medical trip to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from today, February 28, 2022. I will resume office upon my discharge from the hospital. In my absence, I hereby transmit the functions of my office as the national chairman of the CECPC to you.” When asked if he was aware of the letter, Bello answered: “I haven’t seen it.” Bello also maintained that the March 26 national convention of the party will hold unfailingly, adding that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had been duly notified. SIMILARLY, Chairman of South West Governors’ Forum and Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, said no amount of lobbying can stop the convention, even as he declared unflinching support for Bello. He said: “Succinctly, aside feeling very delighted as a major stakeholder in the latest successful rescue mission, I express my confidence in the ability and capacity of Bello to take APC through.” In a signed statement, Akeredolu said: “Without necessarily dwelling on details that are known to critical stakeholders, the path taken lately by Buni is an unenviable trajectory undeserving of our dear party. It is a disdainful narrative. “Nevertheless, the courage and determination, as well as shrewd sincerity of purpose demonstrated by most of the APC governors, remain a delight. “Significantly, the swift response and prompt action taken by Mr. President have, in no small means, salvaged our great party from internal scavengers. We indeed, survived a civilian coup largely inspired by mischief and incurable lust for power through artificial barricades.” MEANWHILE, National Leader of APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has urged the party to be guided by “progressive and enlightened reason,” stressing: “If we do so, the party shall not go astray or be riven by personal agendas and competition that become so heated that it turns into animus.” He also urged faithful to “keep the APC on its rightful path and reject any ruse or artifice that would cause the party to betray its great calling,” noting: “Let not the APC descend into the ways and rank of the other parties.” This came as a northern group, Bola Tinubu Network for Grassroots Mobilisation, said it would be an act of cowardice not to support the ambition of the national leader after his support for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2015 general elections. The group, at a press conference by state coordinator, Alhaji Bala Hassan Burga, said it has become necessary for northerners to reciprocate “the gesture of people of the South West, and in particular the dogged efforts of Tinubu in 2015, when they supported Buhari to become the President.” Tinubu, in a signed statement, yesterday, also applauded Buhari’s “characteristically concise and important statement regarding the strength and purpose of our political party.” The statement reads in part: “Recently, President Buhari made a characteristically concise and important statement regarding the strength and purpose of our political party, All Progressives Congress.” He underscored the need for the party to perfect its internal processes so that it keeps faith to the progressive purpose for which it was founded: to bring forth a better society through just and compassionate good governance. “While the election season is upon us and politics begins to acquire a heavy intensity, we must never lose sight of this higher purpose, this greater good. Like the president said, we all must recall how progressive forces forged an alliance that produced the APC. “Our party came into being to answer the call of reform so that progressive governance for the good of all Nigerians could be established in the land. President Buhari won the 2015 election and was re-elected. But the essential task of fundamental reform and improvement of society has not been completed. “We still have vital work to do. But the work can only be done by a party which is democratic and fair in governing itself as well as in governing the nation. This means that while people pursue their political goals they must also and always keep the greater collective purpose in mind. “Let us be guided by the progressive and enlightened reason for the party. If we do so, the party shall not go astray or be riven by personal agendas and competition that becomes so heated that it turns into animus. Let us be more united in democratic purpose and practice. In this way, we shall surmount the challenges and complications inherent in any electoral cycle. The party can then gird itself for its finer purpose, giving the people the chance at better lives in a better society. “Again, we all should thank the president for the Sunday remark, which he made. We should take full notice of the enduring import of what he said, his eyes on his legacy, on leaving behind a worthy legacy. Let us keep the APC on its rightful path and reject any ruse or artifice that would cause the party to betray its great calling. “Many progressive leaders had invested time, energy, ideas and resources in forming the APC with a view to providing a better Nigeria. The president is a founder of this party. I too have lent my humble bit. As founding fathers of this party, we must continue to guard its purpose. “Let not the APC descend into the ways and rank of the other parties. Instead, may we strive to be an exemplar for a caring and democratic society. Only in this manner can we ensure the legacy of the party while leading our nation to its greater improvement. “We must also commend our president for assenting to the 2022 amendments to the Electoral Act. The new law will hopefully aid in the national pursuit of the fairest elections possible. As such, the act may prove to be a historic milestone on our nation’s democratic journey.”