• HURIWA condemns new dress code for female police officers
• Faults Buhari’s $1m alleged gift to Afghanistan through OIC The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN) and the appropriate anti-corruption agencies to probe the spending on the country’s four refineries. It also urged the probe of alleged corruption and mismanagement of public money budgeted for the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the refineries since 1999. Besides, it implored the President to direct Malami and appropriate anti-corruption agencies to bring to justice those suspected to be responsible for the importation and distribution of dirty fuel into the country, and to urgently identify and ensure access to justice and effective remedies to affected victims. In a letter dated March 5, 2022 and signed by SERAP’s Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the group stated: “There is a legitimate public interest in ensuring justice and accountability for alleged corruption and mismanagement in the oil sector and the resulting importation and distribution of dirty fuel and protracted fuel scarcity in the country. “The importation and distribution of dirty fuel, and the current fuel scarcity across the country demonstrate the need for effective accountability measures to weed out, expose and punish those involved in allegation of corruption in the sector, and to ensure justice and effective remedies for victims.” In the letter copied to Malami, the group maintained that investigating and prosecuting allegations of corruption and mismanagement in spending on the refineries would be entirely consistent with constitutional guarantees and international standards. It may also galvanise public support for government’s anti-corruption efforts. IN another development, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has berated the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, over the introduction of Islamic dress code for female police officers in the country. It declared that the new dress code is illegal, unconstitutional and sectarian, noting that it is an apparent move to fulfill the Islamisation agenda of President Buhari. HURIWA, in a statement yesterday by its National Co-ordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, said the new dress code for female officers in the police created by the constitution that forbids the elevation of any religion as state religion, which include the use of hijab and studded earring, would not in any way increase the efficiency of police officers or protect them from flying AK-47 bullets fired by daring criminals and bandits in the country of late. MEANWHILE, the group has condemned the alleged donation of $1 million public fund without appropriation to the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) for onward disbursement to the Islamic regime that came to power by the barrels of the guns in Afghanistan. HURIWA said the attempt by Buhari and the IGP to project Nigeria to the world, as an Islamic nation, would backfire because millions of Nigerians who have no religious affiliation and the other organised religious groups would never accept the sinister plot.