 Retro outdated yellow TV set from 70s, old FM radio, classic golden microphone on oak table front mint blue background. News, press conference or nostalgic media concept. Vintage style filtered photo Growing up, it’s almost like advertising agencies knew the kryptonite to make us buy products being shown on television or spoken about on the radio. We sometimes can’t help but wonder if they visited the ghosts of advertising fathers, who told them that the most effective way to communicate their advertising messages to rational Nigerians is through jingles. With a catchy tune, simple lyrics, and a fun tone, jingles have proven over the years to evoke emotions in the target audience, persuading them to buy the product being advertised. In celebration of the last throwback Thursday in March, let’s take a trip down memory lane to five popular jingles every Nigerian should know. A brilliant and creative jingle from the popular noodle brand, Indomie. This jingle delivered on appreciating the efforts of moms and promoting Indomie. Indomie Instant Noodles TV Ad : Pidgin – Mama do good Released over 11 years ago, the jingle continues to remain relevant in the minds of many Nigerians. One of the best decisions MTN ever made was enlisting the incredible talent of Afeez Oyetoro (AKA Saka) to sing this jingle. MTN “I don Port” commercial feat. SAKA To announce phone users’ ability to port from any network to MTN still retaining their numbers, this jingle was created. Earning high popularity, the jingle grew to be used as a medley at events. Another Indomie jingle makes the list. For this jingle, Indomie decided to lean towards a humanitarian concept. To me,To you— indomie’s old advert It’s hard not to appreciate the central theme of the song, which is making the world a better place through supporting one another and showing love. Honeywell positioned itself as a major rival to Indomie when they released this jingle. From the cool lyrics to the beautiful choreography done by kids, this jingle dominated screens and radios. HONEYWELL NOODLES COMMERCIAL BAM BAM LALA Skye Bank took a fresh spin on how banks advertise their services to Nigerians. In the video, Skye Bank was able to convey that no matter what stage in a person’s life, they are always there to meet every banking needs. Skye Bank I Wish Do you know any other jingles not mentioned above? Tell us in the comment section below.