Nowadays, you can’t seem to get away from the Crypto craze. However, this is could be a good thing because why wouldn’t you want to make potential millions? Experts predict that by 2030, the global Cryptocurrency market would have more than tripled. As a result, analysts are forecasting a valuation of roughly $5 billion in the upcoming years. Hence, the rise of Decentralised Finance (DeFi) cannot be disputed, regardless of whether individuals are advocates of it or not. A core benefit of the evolving Crypto metaverse is that it allows individuals to have another route of achieving financial freedom, rather than following the more traditional paths of pursuing a 9-5. Anyone can become a Crypto-millionaire, as there are no requirements to join the trend. Thus, this creates a revolutionary impact as Crypto is accessible to all. It gives people a chance to provide a life that they want for themselves without needing to meet specific requirements that are often present within traditional forms of finance. In summary, allowing them to have the financial freedom to do as they please without needing to conform. So, the question remains… Are you ready to become a millionaire? Invest in the Triple S: Shiba Inu (SHIB), Solana (SOL) & Seesaw Protocol (SSW) to unfold your path. The first coin worth considering is the famous Shiba Inu (SHIB). Having launched in August 2020, Coin Price Forecast now predicts that the coin will double in price by December 2022, reaching a figure of $0.00006. Furthermore, its price in value has increased by 7% in the past week alone and some analysts have noted that SHIB’s price has stabilised and has increased by 20% in the past month.  In general, meme-coins aren’t meant to be taken seriously all of the time. They all, however, have the potential to acquire traction if crypto-enthusiasts invest in them. There is a lot of publicity, especially when celebrities (e.g. Elon Musk) help to enhance the exposure of meme-currencies. Hence why, SHIB has achieved peaks in its growth. Another noteworthy Crypto to consider is Solana (SOL). SOL was officially released near the start of 2020 and had skyrocketed in value by the summer of 2021. It’s one of a slew of new Crypto solutions targeted at making crypto networks more scalable and faster by combining a variety of cutting-edge technologies. Moreover, Solana (SOL) implements a breakthrough “proof of history” mechanism that allows timestamps to be placed directly into the blockchain. Additionally, SOL’s price has risen by 15% percent in the last 7 days. Therefore, demonstrating its dependability in terms of value. Last but not least, the final gem definitely worth investing in is Seesaw Protocol (SSW). Its main purpose is to make your Crypto experience better by guaranteeing a fixed low cost of 3%. Thus, offering better rates and complete transparency. In terms of its journey, the price of SSW’s value expanded by 32% in the past week alone. One of the many benefits of investing in Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is that existing holders receive a 3% fee for each transaction within the network. Therefore, simply holding SSW tokens in your wallet can earn you additional tokens – what’s not to love about this! Furthermore, from now until the end of pre-sale Phase 3 (April 2022), it is predicted that the price of Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will increase by a remarkable 7000% – therefore claiming that SSW will have increased significantly from $0.11 to $0.45. Despite the volatility of the markets, it’s important for one to acknowledge that financial success within the Crypto metaverse is essentially predictable. This is due to the fact that it contrasts to gambling in a casino, because becoming a millionaire from DeFi can be strategically planned. Thus, it does not simply happen through luck. As it’s essential to carefully analyse the coins that are worth investing in, there could not be more evidence to suggest how much more Seesaw Protocol (SSW) will continue to excel in its journey – the fact that it has already achieved massive increases in pre-sale speaks for itself. Just as risks apply to all fields of life, there are risks within the world of Crypto. However, the potential benefits you can receive from being wise in your Crypto investments should certainly outweigh any doubts. Why delay creating your own financial success? Why not purchase SSW tokens early to enable a more comfortable life for yourself? Start now whilst SSW is still in pre-sale Phase 2 and watch the returns unravel before your eyes. Enter Presale: https://presale.seesawprotocol.io/register Website: https://seesawprotocol.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/SEESAWPROTOCOL Twitter: https://twitter.com/SEESAWPROTOCOL Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/seesaw.protocol