• Provision is unconstitutional, says Sagay
• There is nothing wrong with it, Adegboruwa insists
• Melaye, Kadiri, others urge NASS to ignore President Eight days after President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the Electoral Act 2022, the National Assembly has begun the process of amending the legislation, which has divided Nigerians. President Muhammadu Buhari had written to the Senate to amend the newly signed act. The President, in a letter addressed to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, and read at plenary yesterday, demanded the federal lawmakers delete Section 84 (12) outright. The letter reads: “I write to draw your kind attention to some salient issues contained in the act and to seek your immediate legislative action thereon. I have carefully studied the recently assented electoral act amendment 2022 and must admit that there are positive provisions that could revolutionalise election process in Nigeria, particularly through the introduction of technology that will guarantee the constitutional rights of citizens to vote effectively.” He, however, added that the practical application of section 84(12) “subjects serving political office holders to inhibitions referred to under Section 40 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution, as it is imperative to note that the only constitutional expectation from serving political office holders that qualify by extension as public officers within the context of the constitution is resignation, withdrawal or retirement, at least 30 days before the date of the election, as provided in Section 6(1)(f) of the 1999 Constitution.” The contentious issue, which the President seeks an amendment, bars political appointees from voting or standing for election in conventions and primaries unless they resigned about 180 days earlier. The provision has continued to divide Nigerians, who are either supporting President Muhammadu Buhari’s call for its amendment or insisting it must be retained.
   
While majority of Nigerians believe that retaining the provision gives all candidates level playing grounds such that politicians would not use their aides for their advantages during primaries, a few others, like the renowned legal scholar, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), are throwing their weight behind the president. Sagay said: “I agree entirely with the President, because what happened, at least, to my knowledge, was that the bill was first sent to the President containing provision for direct primaries, which he found obnoxious, because it will be difficult to execute and all sorts of constitutional conundrums.
   
“So, he objected to it and said if they could remove it, he would sign the bill. Now, the lawmakers did something they are very fond of, always looking for some personal advantage when carrying out responsibilities to this country.
   
“They slipped in new provisions. This time, they prevented people who are in executive positions from contesting or from taking part unless they resign and yet the constitution has already made provisions for checking these resignations for those holding positions in the executive.”	  
   
According to him, the lawmakers created a situation, which will force those appointees to resign about 180 days to participate in primaries.
   
The professor of law stressed that the provision was contrary to the provisions of the constitution, which stipulates 30 days resignation window for public office holders, adding that lawmakers were inserting the clause to suit themselves because they thought such provision would give them more opportunities as against those who are in various executive appointments.  A Global Vice President, International Republican Institute (IRI), Timi Olagunju, agreed that the spirit of the section is mainly to ensure that those in power do not use political appointees as tools to fulfill their ambitions.
   
He believes that since the provision borders on the voting rights of members of political parties, parties should be allowed to determine their own fates.
   
“The constitution in section 40 guarantees the right to association and as such it does preclude from another. A minister, for example, is an appointee of government and that should not preclude the fellow from associating and enjoying the rights associated with her political party such as voting.
 
“Instead of majority of the APC lawmakers in the National Assembly deciding for political parties how to run their internal affairs in this sense, they should let the parties decide how they want their association to run, and let people who are part of the party either agree or disagree to it,” he suggested.
 
Olagunju stated that the political parties should be the one to decide if they want to include such acts into their political party rules.
  
“The president should not even decide for the parties, each political party should decide what works for them. Also, the National Assembly should not either. The National Assembly should not regulate how people should associate with themselves. Making a law in that sense may not really go well,” he declared.
   
Reacting to the argument that it violates the provision of the constitution, Abuja based lawyer, Abubakar Sani, expressed doubt that the clause derogates the fundamental right of Nigerians to freedom of association and expression.
   
He argued that as far as the restriction is only applicable to political appointees and not others such as civil servants, it is justifiable.  Also toeing the same line of argument, human rights activist, Ebun Olu Adegboruwa, (SAN) explained that the reason for the clause is to ensure that all contestants to political offices have a level playing ground. He noted that many politicians had, in the past, used their appointees to aid their victories, while others contested using their instruments of office to gain advantage over their opponents. “The spirit of the provision in my view, is that it gives opportunity to everyone to participate without having advantage over other aspirants. Everybody should go to the poll on a level playing field to achieve equality for all candidates. So, if the person is still in office while contesting for election, it is likely that he will use the instrument of office for his own advantage against his opponent. Therefore, everybody should be on equal footing in approaching elections,” he stressed.	 
   
On his own, All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Olawale Oshun stated that there is no reason the National Assembly should review section 84 of the electoral Act.
  
Oshun stated that anybody who holds office on appointment in the public service, because he takes decisions on all manner of issues, should not be allowed to be part of political activities.
  
He noted that such persons must be apolitical, adding that if they intend to become political and contest elections or participate in electoral process, they should resign early enough.
  
“There is no way they can remain non-partisan when they are already flying the flag of a party on any issue. My thought is that they should resign and for that reason, I don’t see any need why the National Assembly should review the clause,” he said. MEANWHILE, two former members of the Senate from Kogi State, Senators Dino Melaye and Alex Kadiri, have urged the National Assembly to overlook President Buhari’s call, saying the provision reflects the wishes of long suffering Nigerians.
  
While Melaye, who had brief stint in the current Ninth Senate, noted that the federal lawmakers have finished work on the law, Kadiri, who represented Kogi East in the fourth Senate, argued that having signed the bill into law, NASS should disregard the President’s suggestions.
 
Both former lawmakers spoke separately, just as The Guardian gathered that the Presidency was convinced that the contentious Section 84 (12) targeted influential members of the federal cabinet.
   
Sources in the Presidency confided in The Guardian that President Buhari was availed of sufficient evidence that the section was meant to dislodge his appointees believed to be nursing diverse political ambitions for the 2023 poll.
   
“As at the time Mr. President travelled, the puzzle was the possible implications of withholding assent from Electoral Act amendment bill for the third time in four years, especially when the lawmakers had expunged portions of the bill that had to do with mandatory direct primaries.
  
“In the end, after weighing the implications of such refusal on the administration and the person of the President, who had been a victim of faulty electoral processes, it was agreed by majority of stakeholders that the President should sign the bill into law and save our party from public scorn.
  
“It was obvious that some leaders of the National Assembly were working in cahoots with entrenched political interests to get back at the Presidency and those they felt could influence things in APC,” a source said.
  
One of the sources disclosed that when the back and forth argument over whether the President should sign or not was going on, “some insiders instigated civil society organisations to embark on protests to the National Assembly and that made it imperative for the President to sign and make his observation public.”
  
He said that the Presidency is optimistic that the National Assembly leaders would keep to their promise to act on an executive bill that would alter those portions pointed out by the President.
   
Attempts to get incumbent Senators to comment on the development could not bear fruit as at the time of filing this report, but Melaye and Kadiri said the President has seen the public interest of the Electoral Act and appended his signature.
   
On his part, Senator Kadiri, while arguing that NASS should ignore President Buhari and continue their work, said: “I think he has signed what they wanted, they should just ignore him and continue with what they are doing.” 