Organised Basketball Network Academy (OBN) has awarded education and basketball scholarship to three young aspiring basketball stars, Nnamuchi Joseph, Ehijator Iceson and Gambia-born Jawo Demba to study at Desales High School Louisville, Kentucky, U.S. OBN Academy disclosed that the trio got the scholarship as a reward for their outstanding performance in the game, adding that it will ensure they get quality education abroad, which is one of the visions of the Academy. Unveiling the awardees at the OBN complex in Ajah, Lagos on Tuesday, executive director of the academy, ex NBA player, Obinna Ekezie, said in less than one year of its existence, it has churned out talented youths in basketball, who are currently understudying in the U.S. courtesy of OBN Academy. “OBN already has a foundation in America, which partners with schools to give talented players educational scholarship. “The three players had to prove to the coaches that they can make an impact in the dunking game while studying before they were granted the scholarship. “Joseph got three years scholarship worth $63,000, Jawo from The Gambia got two years scholarship worth $42,000, while Iceson earned three years contract worth $74,000. They will be playing for Desales High school’s Basketball team in America. “This is a life-changing opportunity for the players. We have guardians that have volunteered to take care of them while studying in America and OBN Academy is always open to assist with their needs during the course of study. “Our vision is for the players to transfer their talents from High school to College, move to NBA level and possibly represent Nigeria at international Championships. “They also need a good education to be more relevant to the society after retirement. I want to thank parents, coaches and journalists for their assistance in making the OBN Basketball Academy vision, which is to develop youths in basketball from the grassroots to see the light of the day.” He advised the players to be focused and steer away from drugs and other vices so that the school would be encouraged to receive more students from the academy. He disclosed that last year, OBN awarded scholarships to three players, who are currently doing well in America.