The Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law (NBA-SBL), Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) and the Institute of Directors, Nigeria (IoD) are collaborating to launch the Corporate Governance Triangle, an initiative designed to foster good corporate governance in Nigeria for members of the business law community, directors and managers of businesses, shareholders and other corporate stakeholders. The launch, scheduled for Tuesday, March 22, will see the signing of the Corporate Governance Triangle Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by the NGX, IoD Nigeria and NBA-SBL, led by its Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee, which initiated the Triangle. The trio are key stakeholders in the corporate world and the Corporate Governance Triangle is seen as capable of enhancing corporate governance in Nigeria. The NGX Group, which operates critical capital markets infrastructure, is in the collaboration to further its commitment to the highest governance standards, while IoD Nigeria has been at the forefront of promoting good governance practices in Nigerian companies and the public sector. On its part, the NBA-SBL Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee was set up to champion, increase awareness and enhance corporate governance and compliance best practice across all industries in Nigeria. “As key stakeholders in the corporate world, Nigerian Exchange Ltd. and IoD are in a position to influence their members, share best practices and develop frameworks that will enhance corporate governance in Nigeria,” said Ayuli Jemide, Chairman, NBA-SBL, and Ayotola Jagun, Chair, Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee (CGCC) of the NBA-SBL. An agenda for the launch released by the organisers said there would be an unveiling of the Corporate Governance Triangle by the NGX CEO, IoD President, NBA-SBL Chairman, and all past NBA-SBL Chairs present. The CEO of the NGX and President of Institute of Directors, Nigeria will deliver the keynote addresses at the launch, while Oscar N. Onyema, the Group CEO of Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, George Etomi, Partner, George Etomi & Partners, and others will give the goodwill messages. Other speakers include Amb. Shuaibu Adamu Ahmed, CEO/Executive Secretary, Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria, who will speak on “Corporate Governance in Nigeria: Road Map for the Future”; NBA-SBL Chair Jemide will give the “History and Background of Corporate Governance Triangle”, while Ayotola Jagun, Chair, NBA-SBL CGCC, will speak on “Aims & Objectives of The Corporate Governance Triangle”. Established in 2021, the CGCC of the NBA-SBL seeks to harness the expertise, research and comparative knowledge flowing from other jurisdictions with a view to developing, expanding and reforming existing frontiers in the Nigerian corporate governance and compliance sphere. The establishment of the Corporate Governance Triangle is in line with its role of advancing the corporate governance agenda.