• Lawmakers summon NSA, service chiefs, others
• IGP acquires five additional unmanned aerial vehicles About 20 persons, including women and children, have lost their lives in a boat mishap in River Shiroro, Niger State, while trying to escape attacks on their community by gunmen. The incident occurred, yesterday, when the gunmen, said to be numbering over 200, invaded Shayita community in Munya Local Council and, in their usual manner, ransacked the place, looting foodstuff and other valuables. Sources said the victims were crossing the river to the Zumba and Gwada Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camps. According to a source, about 10 boats took off from Shayita, heading to Zumba, when one of the boats capsized midway into the journey. The boat was said to be carrying about 60 people, mostly women and children with their belongings. While some of the victims were rescued, many remain missing, fueling the possibility that the death toll could be more than the 20, whose bodies have been recovered by local divers. ALSO, bandits, on Tuesday night, launched a fresh attack on two villages in Giwa Local Council of Kaduna State, killing 23 people, while several others sustained gunshot wounds. The terrorists had earlier attacked nine villages in Giwa, killing 50 persons and abducting several others.
THIS came as House of Representatives asked National Security Adviser (NSA), Chief of Defence Staff, service chiefs and Inspector General of Police (IGP) to appear before it today, to answer questions on worsening level of insecurity in the country. Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, refused to attend to representatives of the service chiefs and called off the meeting, insisting their superiors must appear in person. He said: “This is a serious matter. We are not going to sit down, here, and listen to anybody beside the service chiefs themselves. They have questions to answer and they must appear, here, in person to answer Nigerians.” MEANWHILE, IGP Usman Alkali Baba has acquired five additional Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to improve surveillance operations and checkmate criminal activities in the country. According to the police high command, this is in line with the IGP’s vision and mission statements, which include technology-driven policing. Police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the acquisition is manifestation of the IGP’s determination to integrate use of innovative technology in law enforcement duties and enhance intelligence gathering and operational capabilities. 