YIAGA Africa to deploy 541 observers to monitor election The Senior Special Assistant to Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State on Electoral Matters, Mr. Olaiya Kupolati, has resigned and defected to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to team up with former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni. In a letter dated March 23, 2022, addressed to the office of the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Kupolati said his resignation takes effect from March 30, 2022. Kupolati, however, said his resignation was in tandem with the new Electoral Act, saying that he intends to contest for the House of Assembly on the platform of SDP. While announcing his resignation and subsequent defection to SDP at his ward in Iye-Ekiti on Wednesday, Kupolati, predicated this on his preference for Oni, whom he described as having a better experience and pedigrees to govern Ekiti State. MEANWHILE, a civil society organisation, Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA) Africa, has said that it is planning to deploy 541 election observers to monitor the June 18, 2022 Ekiti State governorship poll. A top YIAGA’s team leader and Board member, Mr. Ezenwa Nwagwu, while addressing journalists during a media roundtable discussion in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, said the high number of personnel deployment would ensure that the votes of the electorate count. Nwagwu noted that YIAGA would be introducing a novel approach tagged, “Watch The Votes Initiative (WTV),” to ensure that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other state actors in the electoral process align with international best practices in conducting the much- awaited poll. He referred to Ekiti State election as unique because of its history and for having the highest number of educated people in the country, saying: “Nigerians are expecting high ethical conduct in this election, taking into cognisance the nature and level of enlightenment of her citizens. Nwagwu described the WTV as a technology-driven initiative that would be deployed for parallel votes tabulation to ascertain the authenticity of votes being counted to expose fraud, rigging and manipulation. ALSO, YIAGA Project Manager, Mr. James Paul, tasked the commission to be well prepared for the coming electoral battle, saying any infraction from the umpire could mar the process and plunge Ekiti into crisis. He urged the electorate to resist vote buying.