To deepen women participation in technology, Chief Executive Officer, Future Software Resources Limited, Nkemdilim Uwaje-Begho has charged female folks to invest in technology despite its challenges.
   
Begho gave this charge at the Duale Ovia and Alex-Adedipe (DOA) conference, which had six private secondary schools in attendance, with the theme, “Girls in Tech; Breaking the Bias in technology.”
 
“The time is now, technology is just getting started and I think in the next 20 years, we will really see the full impact of digital transformation, we are going to see how the world is going to completely change and become fully virtual and digital,” she said.
    
Begho insisted that it is important for an organisation to get more women into technology and inspire women who want to pursue a career in technology because there is a need for more women in technology. She noted that the international women’s day will always be relevant to be celebrated because the world is still not gender equal.
   
Her words: “Until we have the gender equal world, we will continue to have under representation of over 50 per cent of population, we will continue to have biases against women, we will continue to have women who earn less for the same role, we will continue to have countries where women cannot vote, where women cannot drive, women cannot participate in certain activities and as we continue to have that, we will continue to exclude more than half of the population.   
    
Managing Partner of DOA, Adeleke Alex-Adedipe stressed the importance of technology, adding that women should not be exempted.
   
“Women should be highly celebrated and that’s starting off with young girls anywhere in the world, they should be celebrated and they must be exposed to it and older women who have been celebrated to encourage them.
  
“We as a law firm, support women, encourage women, celebrate women and we have not only said this by words of mouth, we have shown this by our actions. I celebrate women and I join everyone in the world to say we are all the same and should think women should be highly celebrated regardless of the age from young girls to older women, everyone should be celebrated,” he said. 