At 58, he has remained a unique personality with unblemished record and outstanding selfless service to humanity and mankind. He is  disarming, amiable and awesome. He is a Governor, whose political attainments in the murky waters of Nigeria politics and other human endeavours have been impressive, divine, rapid, quiet, smooth and seamless. He is not a typical Nigeria politician, but a leader with many positive, exemplary, enigmatic and phenomenal parts. He is indeed a living school for leadership and followership. This unique personality is no other person than Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyichukwu Lawrence Ugwuanyi, who clocks 58 years today. To him, politics, political position or office is not a do-or-die affair. It should be a peaceful, rancour-free communal exercise. This is not far from the reason he is often called priest in politics by many. To Ugwuanyi, partisan politics is secondary, while good governance associated with the general wellbeing of the people and peaceful co-existence is primary. Politics to him, starts and ends before, during and after elections. Immediately after that, good governance takes centre stage. The overall interest, welfare and wellbeing of the people irrespective of party affiliation, religion, tribe or status takes precedence over any other interest. This has been his leadership style before and since 2015 he assumed office as Governor of Enugu State, amidst daunting and obvious challenges. He is neither pretentious, political nor hypocritical about it. As can be seen, his government’s policies and programmes have always been fashioned in that direction. It is not in doubt that it is in his nature to care and cater for others. He places so much premium on it more than any other thing. He has been passionate and consistent about it and derives joy in doing it. No wonder, he has been often described as a compassionate leader, rare humanist, welfarist, pacifist and humility personified. Of utmost concern and worry to Ugwuanyi at every given time is how to enhance the welfare and wellbeing of the people, especially the downtrodden. He believes so much in humanity and mankind. He has massively touched lives and provided comfort for people at the grassroots level with the provision of numerous critical infrastructure which include roads, hospitals, schools, jobs, and others in the rural areas across Enugu State in an equitable and unprecedented manner. These rural areas or communities have only been remembered or accessed by politicians before and during elections. Indigenes and residents of some of these rural communities have not seen buldozer, access or ply asphalted roads for years. The people had lived and survived on self-help and communal efforts, that  were not enough to make life meaningful and comfortable for them before now. But with Ugwuanyi government’s massive infrastructural development and opening of the rural areas across the state, which has led to the completion of more than 248 rural roads and still ongoing, the situation has changed for good for the people of Akpugo community in Nkanu West Council Area, Nimbo and Nkpologu in Uzo-Uwani Council Area, Ogboduaba in Udenu Council Area and other rural communities across the state. Ugwuanyi is a man who is at peace with his people and God. He can  sacrifice anything to ensure that peace reigns. He is never carried away by the paraphernalia of his office and exalted position of governor. He has rather demystified and commonalised the myth surrounding political office, by making it accessible and available to his people. He has used power to unite and develop the state. Very unassuming and urbane, he is a listening leader, who loves details and good results.  He was christened Lawrence and was also given Igbo name-Ifeanyichukwu, meaning “nothing is impossible with God. A name that is meaningful, philosophical, symbolic and spiritual in all ramifications. A name that has lived with him and has continued to manifest in all his endeavours. Ugwuanyi was brought up under strict Christian precepts. This has clothed him with humility, taciturnity, intelligence, honesty and diligence.These virtues remain his greatest assets and strengths. Growing among his peers, he shone like a star both in academic and extra-curricular activities during his primary, secondary and tertiary education pursuits. His exemplary leadership quality began to manifest early in his life as a secondary school student at the prestigious St. Theresa College, Nsukka, where he was outstanding in character and learning. After his secondary education, he secured admission into the Nigeria’s foremost university, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) where he obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree in Finance and M.Sc degree in Marketing, majoring in Public Relations. In his quest for deep and wider knowledge, he moved further to acquire MBA degree in Finance and Accountancy from Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT)
While his colleagues scrambled for white collar jobs, within and outside the country upon graduation, Ugwuanyi, who has always believed and preferred working for and with his people for the common good of all, picked a job at Premier Brokers Limited, a prime insurance broking firm in the Southeast zone owned by the five states of the zone and African Continental Bank (ACB) now defunct. After many years of excellent performance, he rose to become the Chief Executive Officer of the Premier Broking Firm. In 2002, he became the 16th President of the Rotary Club of Emene, Enugu. It was at this point that his leadership qualities and exceptional philanthropy, especially to the downtrodden and the less privileged in the society came to public fore.
   
Without hesitation and in appreciation of his rare philanthropy, the people of his town, Orba, in an elaborate traditional ceremony conferred on him the title of Dunu Gburugburu 1 of Orba, meaning the man of the people.
   
Satisfied with his exploits and track record in public and community service, Ugwuanyi’s people beckoned on him to offer himself for political office. His foray into the murky water of Nigerian politics commenced with his quest to serve as chairman of his local council, Udenu. Despite losing the opportunity due to political intrigues and backbitting, Ugwuanyi remained undaunted and focused in his political pursuits, banking on God, his people’s support and prayers.  Among the workers, pensioners, security agents, religious leaders, artisans, downtrodden,  residents, visitors and others, Ugwuanyi’s government is popular and acceptable, because of its good governance and people-oriented programmes that have directly impacted on the lives and welfare of the people. 
   
Apart from paying workers salary as at when due, his government has been taking adequate care of other needs of workers in the state. His government has rebuilt, built and equipped more 500 schools, recruited more than 4000 teachers and provided conducive environment for teaching and learning especially in rural areas that have been abandoned for too long. 
   
Enugu was among the first states in Nigeria that approved and paid 30,000 minimum wage and many states are yet to pay it today almost one year after it was passed into law. It was because of Ugwuanyi’s performance in office and others that four national dailies-The Sun, Independent, Vanguard and Leadership, independently found him worthy of honour in 2018 with different and unprecedented awards at the same time, after painstaking assessments of his steady and sterling performance. These awards were first of its kind to any governor in the southeast region, if not the entire country since 1999.
Even in the face of his remarkable performance in office and the accolades that have continued to pour in, Ugwuanyi is not resting on his oars. He has remained humble and focused on his job. Even as Ugwuanyi’s  administration is about rounding off his second term in office, Ugwuanyi has not reduced his work rate, commitment or dedication to duty. The ease, peacefulness and massive votes of which Ugwuanyi was reelected for second term speak volume of his performance, popularity and acceptance by the people in the state. It is a clear indicator of the renewed confidence and trust the people had in him to steer the ship of the state for the next four years. It has also shown that Ugwuanyi is not only at home with his people, he is accessible by them and of assistance to them in time of needs and wants.
   
While it is expected that his family members, friends and well-wishers will roll out drums today to celebrate him amidst fanfare and razzmatazz, Ugwuanyi will in his usual manner, philanthropy and religious belief celebrate his birthday in a low key at the orphanage homes and homes of the elderly and the less privileged.
   
There has been massive influx of people into Enugu state, even at the peak of the unknown gunmen palaver in the Southeast region, a development that has brought about value in the cost of accommodation and lands in the state.
   
This is because of the peaceful and security of Enugu state which was made possible by Ugwuanyi’s peaceful dispositions and security initiatives and collaborations. 
   
His Excellency, birthday is a new start, a fresh beginning and a time to pursue new endeavours with new goals. Trudge on with confidence and trust in God, you are a very special person to your people. May today and all your days be amazing, prosperous and fulfilling as you sincerely and selflessly serve humanity. True to your name Ifeanyichukwu, Nothing Will surpass God in your life. Hurray and many more rewarding years ahead, the indefatigable leader at 58. • Ezea, writes from Independence Layout Enugu 