The Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), the Federal Ministry of Environment and the British High Commission, Abuja have jointly launched an updated version of the Nigeria Energy Calculator 2050 (NECAL 2050), an energy and emissions model to assist the country in achieving its climate goals. The present version of the NECAL 2050 Calculator, a tool that allows users to try different options for reducing emissions at a faster rate and to build a pathway that meets long-term emission targets, is designed to help industries and the energy sector to set their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, as well as to identify realistic solutions, which support the implementation of Nigeria’s climate commitments, also known as Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). The update, the first in Africa, was delivered under the UK Government’s international 2050 Calculator programme, funded by the UK’s International Climate Finance and was led by global engineering, management and development consultancy, Mott MacDonald, and a consortium, which includes Imperial College, Climact and Ricardo. Nigeria has submitted updated NDCs, which include new mandates for industries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. The new NECAL 2050 Calculator reflects the prevailing policies, ongoing efforts in energy supply and demand, and proposes reference scenarios on energy production and consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from 2015 to 2050. The new version includes updates to six sectors: Transport, buildings, industry, CO2 removal and gases, electricity and land, and bioenergy and waste. British High Commissioner, Catriona Laing, said: “The launch of the Nigeria Energy Calculator 2050 further strengthens bilateral collaboration between the UK and Nigeria on the clean energy transition. Nigeria’s energy sector accounts for 60 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions and the sector is also key to the delivery of Nigeria’s many development priorities; it is therefore critical to understand the options that are available to reduce emissions, while matching energy supply and demand.” “I look forward to seeing the NECAL2050 tool supporting different sectors of government to design and deliver high-quality policies that enhance the conditions for strong governance, growth, job creation and poverty reduction.” The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu said: “This is an energy planning tool that enables choices in energy development pathways to be examined, along with its environmental consequences. “ The NECAL2050 model should form part of our national energy planning tools. This will be used in planning energy needs for Nigeria’s Vision 2050 and beyond. This will reflect Nigeria’s commitment to cleaner and more sustainable energy utilisation.” The Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor said: “As we gather to launch the 2nd Edition of the Nigeria Energy Calculator NECAL2050, I am more elated knowing that the completion of this policy tool could not have come at a better time than now. Senior Climate and Sustainability Consultant for Mott MacDonald and Programme Country Manager for Nigeria, Jessica Brislin-Higgs, noted: “Nigeria is a pioneer, it is the first African country to produce an updated Calculator model. We would like to acknowledge the expertise and diligence of the core technical team at the Energy Commission of Nigeria, with support from the Federal Ministry of Environment that has worked tirelessly on this project. These efforts are highly appreciated and will go far towards changing the trajectory of sustainable development in Nigeria.” 