LAUTECH Students Read Riot Act To ASUU National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), South West (Zone D) chapter, has described the National President of the association, Sunday Asefon, as a propaganda tool in the hands of the Federal Government to strangulate a genuine struggle to revamp Nigerian education. In a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan, Oyo State, yesterday, the Coordinator, Emmanuel Adegboye, expressed disappointment that NANS national leadership drew a battle line with the Academic Staff of Nigerian Universities (ASUU) because the union’s NEC refused to meet with Asefon. The students berated Asefon’s leadership style and for criticising ASUU on its determination to rescue the nation’s education, arguing that ASUU was justified for not meeting with the NANS president, alleging that Asefon presented himself as a betrayal to the people’s struggle to deserve ASUU’s trust. According to the statement, the students are more convinced that Asefon does not understand the basic meaning of the “Revolutionary President” which he sadly calls himself. “Without sounding like the spokespersons of ASUU, but as a conscious group of students who have closely monitored the steps of Asefon since this ASUU struggle began, we can say that the ASUU NEC is justified for not meeting with him. “Shall we mention his inglorious stance against the June 12 Democracy Day protest? Or his recent visit to the Minister of Education on the night of the day the minister walked out on him following a protest façade?” Adegboye said. He stressed that no attempt to play on the emotions of Nigerian students would work, as “it is evident that Asefon has placed himself as a tool of propaganda in the hands of the Federal Government.” However, students of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, Oyo State, have given the institution’s chapter of ASUU a 72-hour ultimatum to opt out of the nationwide strike or be ready for confrontation. The Students’ Union Government (SUG) gave the warning in a letter to the union, signed by Anuoluwa Adeboye (President) and Love Gabriel (Public Relations Officer), and made available to journalists in Ogbomoso, yesterday. The students’ leaders lamented the crippling effect of the strike on the institution. “Regardless of the ruckus between the Federal Government and ASUU, the involvement of LAUTECH ASUU in the ongoing strike is questionable,” they lamented. Pointing out that the involvement of ASUU LAUTECH is not only dangerous for the students but horrendous for the university system, the SUG demanded open explanation from ASUU LAUTECH to Ladokites why it chose to join the national strike at the expense of smooth running of academic activities in the school. 