Minister raises police trust fund implementation panel The constant retooling of the military has made it better prepared to handle emerging security threats in Nigeria, according to the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya. Opening the COAS 2022 First Quarter Conference yesterday in Abuja, he stated that the betterment of the force was acknowledged in the Global Terrorism Index (GTI). The military chief said on his assumption office, the most populous nation was confronted with devastating insurgency in the North East, banditry in the North West, secessionist agitations and sundry disturbances in other parts. The parley is to achieve more results by the Nigerian Army. According to Yahaya, increased deployments in various theatres of operations, as well as creation of new units and forward operating bases provided the needed impetus for the excelling of the troops. IN a related development, Minister of Police Affairs, Dr. Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, has inaugurated the Nigeria Police Trust Fund (NPTF) Project Implementation Committee. The seven-man panel, according to Head of Press and Public Relations in the ministry, Bolaji Kazeem, would advise and consolidate progress of the fund. The minister said the points of reference of the committee also include review status reports and issues brought before in addition to making recommendations. He clarified that the Nigeria Police Trust Fund (NPTF) Act provides that the implementation committee should be responsible to the Board of Trustees in the execution of the duties and responsibilities assigned to it. Dingyadi recalled that the fund had taken off in earnest with the provision of 200 trucks and security equipment that included 1,600 units of personal protective gears (bullet-proof vests and helmets), COVID-19 kits, drugs and medical equipment procured, commissioned and handed over to the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) by the Trust Fund. Members of the committee are IGP Usman Alkali Baba; Dr. Mike Adebiyi; Adamu Danladi Kasimu; Oforah; Alexander Muoneke; Ibrahim Usman; Abdullahi Abdulkarim Tsafe and Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto, the Executive Secretary.