 Ariana DeBose arrives at the Oscars on Sunday, March 27, 2022, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Fashion! Fashion! Fashion! After a virtual experience and restrictions to the Oscars ceremony last year due to covid, the 2022 Academy awards came back big and better even with drama from Will Smith and Chris Rock.
Putting aside the drama, the fashion scene is one interesting side dish to the 94th Academy Awards that took place on Sunday 28th. Many celebrities walked the walk and talked the talk as they strutted the red carpet with glam and poise.
The show didn’t go unnoticed with plenty of red on display from stars like Amy Forsyth, Kristen Dunst and more as the guests arrived at the Dolby Theater.
Below are celebrities who popped at the Oscars’ showing us more ways than one to wear red. Ariana DeBose
The West Side Story queen was nominated for her role as Anita. She was dressed in a Valentino scarlett pant, a plunging neckline crop top and a flowing cape. In describing her, she said it shows ‘‘me as myself in every way” and she paired it with jewelry by De Beers. Mandatory Credit: Photo by Chelsea Lauren/Shutterstock Kirsten Dunst 94th Kristen Dunst
Keeping it sweet and romantic, the actress who was nominated for Best Supporting actress nominee wore a ruffled vintage Christian Lacroix gown, accompanied by hubby Jesse Plemons, also a nominee for his role in “Power of the Dog.”
Jennifer Garner
The actress was dressed in a red off-the-shoulder red column dress paired with red lips. Tracie Ellis Ross Marlee Matlin
The star of best picture-nominee Coda, was classic in her look wearing a scarlet custom Monique Lhuillier fitted satin gown.
Amy Forsyth
Co star of Coda wore a ruffled up Marchesa one-shoulder dress topped with a high slit.Tracee Ellis Ross
The Blackish queen and fashion icon graced the carpet wearing an ankle-length Carolina Herrera with red lips and sleek packed hairdo. Rosie Perez arrives at the Oscars on Sunday, March 27, 2022, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP) Rosie Perez
The award presenter stunned effortlessly in a Christian Siriano dress with a slim train. 