Implosion in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and attendant suspension of its Lagos branch reaffirm inherent excesses that neither modern unionism nor sane society should tolerate. It is disappointing that the Lagos State government is shirking its duty to act firmly against brigandage; and appears instead to aim to repackage old wine in a new bottle, in this Lagos NURTW episode. Lagos State deserves better organisation in motor parks and streets, and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu should insist on that standard. The commercial nerve centre of the nation has put up with the menace of its street-urchins for too long. The parks, even various spots on major roads, are characterised by the unruly behaviour, extortionate and largely chaotic activities of the countless motor park touts, otherwise called agbero, working ostensibly as members of the State NURTW. Commercial vehicle operators are reportedly compelled to pay a range of extortionate charges of various names – ‘owo load’ (loading charge), ‘owo chairman’ (chairman’s due), ‘owo booking’ (slot fee), even ‘owo boys’ (something for the boys).  Needless to say, these changes translate to higher transport fares that commuters must bear. The average bus stop in Lagos presents such outrageously lawless sight that it may be hard to believe there exist a government of the people in authority for the people. This is not right. It is not acceptable.
 
The Lagos NURTW is a strong revenue-yielding, politically well-connected and influential body. Besides its internal wrangle, the branch, or more specifically its leader, also has a dispute with the national body of the NURTW. The consequence is the suspension indefinitely, by the apex body quoting the applicable sections of its constitution, of the Lagos branch chairman, Musiliu Akinsanya (alias MC Oluomo), on the grounds of alleged misconduct, insubordination, and inciting the branch against the national union. Akinsanya responded, citing Section 40 of the extant Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to ‘immediately withdraw (his branch) membership and operation from the national body of the NURTW. The two incidents have lately generated tensions that, given both the union’s characteristics and service in the transportation sector, threaten the peace and stability of the state. 