• Ghana’s new players set to debut against Nigeria
• Doctors to examine Omeruo, Umar’s fitness on arrival An advanced party made up of backroom staff and Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) officials, are expected to arrive in Super Eagles’ camp at Wells Carlton Hotel, Abuja, today, to prepare for the player’s arrival later this weekend. The Eagles will begin training for the final of the Qatar 29022 World Cup qualifying series against Ghana on Monday ahead of the first leg of the tie billed to hold in Kumasi. According to sources close to the team, the players are expected this weekend, but some officials have been sent to the camp to prepare grounds for their arrival. West Brom defender, Semi Ajayi, is expected to be among the early birds as his club has already sent notice to the NFF that the player will come in tomorrow. There are concerns about the fitness of Spain-based striker, Umar Sadiq and Defender, Kenneth Omeruo, but an official told The Guardian that the players, like every other member of the squad, would be examined by doctors on arrival to ascertain their fitness for the matches. MEANWHILE, Ghana is expected to cap their new stars when they meet Nigeria in the World Cup qualifier. Two of such players are Roma attacker, Felix Afena-Gyan, who recently agreed to play for the Black Stars, and Antoine Semenyo, who plays for Bristol in the English lower division. Afena-Gyan just broke into the scene this season and is yet to establish his brilliance. The 19-year-old has two goals in 16 appearances this season, while Semenyo has six goals and eight assists in 25 appearances this season. Nigeria is also expected to feature some new faces with Leicester City’s Ademola Lukman and Emmanuel Dennis of Watford expected to play prominent roles in the play. Ghana will host the first leg of the tie in Kumasi on March 25, while the decisive leg will hold in Abuja on March 29. The winner of the tie over two legs will qualify as one of Africa’s five representatives at the Qatar 2022 World Cup.