Concession firm restates commitment to quality service Lagos State Government has urged the people of the state, especially the residents of Lekki and Ikoyi, to show understanding ahead of the planned reopening of the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza by the Lekki Concession Company Limited (LCC). The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso and his counterparts in Transport, Dr. Fredericks Oladehinde, as well as Home Affairs, Anofi Elegushi, made the appeal during a stakeholders’ meeting held yesterday at The Lekki Coliseum in Lekki Phase I, Lagos. They assured the residents that the state government would look into all the requests and recommendations made by the stakeholders and respond appropriately. The meeting, which was held to engage key residents on LCC’s plan to reopen the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza, was attended by President of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association (LERSA), Olorogun James Emadoye; human rights activists, the media and several other residents of Lekki, among others. Omotoso, while responding to the key stakeholders’ views about the LCC decision to reopen the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza in April, commended the speakers and implored them to show some understanding with the Lagos State Government. Oladehinde, who also appealed to the people not to be shortsighted, said the decision of the government was not to punish people but to create an enabling environment for more jobs through private sector participation. Also speaking, Elegushi said the purpose of the stakeholders’ meeting was to engage key stakeholders on the matter of reopening the toll plaza. He appealed for co-operation, saying: “We must all work together.” In his address, the Managing Director/CEO of Lekki Concession Company Limited (LCC), Mr. Yomi Omomuwasan, said the resumption of operations was necessary for the company not to default on its payment of local and international loans, as well as to cater for the welfare of its workers. He said LCC had also introduced new technology and innovations to make movement at the toll plaza seamless and faster for commuters. Some of the residents, while pleading with the state government to halt the process for now, based their plea on the harsh economic situation in the country, saying that the tolling would aggravate the situation. 