President Muhammadu Buhari took the nation by surprise recently when he unveiled another round of overseas’ travels amid biting fuel scarcity and attendant crisis nationwide. Buhari, who doubles as the Minister of Petroleum, has not shown sufficient empathy to the plight of Nigerians. It is scandalous that the dirty fuel episode happened; it is most ludicrous that the knock-on effect has endured for a month while the president turns a blind eye. But beleaguered Nigerians deserve more than a wash, rinse and repeat approach to complicit leadership and the energy crisis as a whole.
 
Curiously, what started as an error of judgment in methanol threshold that is permissible in petrol has snowballed into the old winding narrative on fuel subsidy and another upward adjustment in pump price. After all, as queues at filling stations get longer across states, with tension and desperation heating up in the sun, consumers are settling for the black market rates. But the question is: where is the Commander-in-Chief and the Minister of Petroleum? Why is no one taking responsibility for the avoidable hardship on the general public? Why is the sole importer of petrol – the NNPC – opaque, insincere, all talks without remedial actions? At this time of scarcity, the petrol marketers are also pushing for a share of the subsidy’s supplementary budget of N2.557 trillion! Who is on the side of poor Nigerians?
  
It is clear that the laid-back disposition of the current administration is at the heart of the perennial energy crisis and why subsidy has remained an albatross on the government that promised change. But besides the administration’s floundering, Nigerians should brace up for the long-haul that looks beyond messianic leaders but enduring institutions. The general public should realise that fuel subsidy may not hold for too long even though the government is worried about the protests that may arise from its removal. The next administration after Buhari has its first problem to tackle – fuel subsidy. Therefore, Nigerians should be on the lookout for credible candidates and their promises on subsidy, especially for obvious reasons. 