• VP ‘great personality’ deserving ‘upgrade’, says Sheik Niass
• RCCG denies support for any presidential candidate Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is set to meet with all state chairmen of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. Acting chairman of the party’s national caretaker committee and Niger State Governor Sani Bello had formally inaugurated the chairmen, last week. The schedule of the meeting was sent to the concerned by Borno State APC chairman, Alhaji Bukar Dalori. While the notice of the meeting did not clearly state what the agenda is, one of the chairmen who received it said the Vice President would use the opportunity to personally inform the chairmen of his interest to enter the presidential race on the platform of the party. THIS was as a group under the auspices of Osinbajo Youth Organisation (OYO) said the Vice President has agreed to declare his bid after the party’s March 26 convention. Director General of the group, Salahaddeen Shuaibu, at a press conference in Abuja, on Saturday, said: “I can confidently tell you that the Vice President has agreed to declare to run for the office of president immediately after the APC convention in March.” He added: “Even if Osinbajo declines, we will compel him to run because Nigeria is in dire need of good leadership. Nigeria is thirsty and hungry for good leadership that citizens would be proud of.” MEANWHILE, Senegal-based Grand Khalifa of the Tijjaniya Movement, Worldwide, Sheikh Muhammadu Mahi Ibrahim Niass, has described Osinbajo as one of Nigeria’s “great personalities” requiring “upgrade” for the benefit of the country and Africa. Niass was guest of Osinbajo, Saturday, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The cleric, who spoke through an interpreter, said: “The Vice President is a great personality with an exceptional character, standing on two feet: one as a political leader concerned about the progress of his people, and the second, as a man of God. “Africa needs a person of your nature with very strong background in religion and politics. I pray that the Almighty Allah will upgrade you and enable you achieve your desires and aspirations because, like I said, not only Nigeria but Africa will benefit from your leadership qualities.” In his remarks, Osinbajo called on religious leaders to use faith to promote peace, ensure prosperity for the people, as well as development of society beyond spiritual uplift of individuals and communities. IN a related development, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) distanced itself from information trending on social media that it was sponsoring a particular candidate for the presidential election. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is a pastor with the RCCG. Assistant General Overseer (Administration and Personnel), Pastor Johnson Odesola, clarified that the church’s newly created Directorate of Politics and Governance is an internal instrument designed to coordinate the engagement of members willing to be involved in politics and also mobilise support for them. He said the directorate was not set up to support a particular aspirant as being suggested. According to him, the church has members belonging to several political parties and would not be drawn into partisan issues. 