CIG Motors, an exclusive distributor of GAC brand, has entered into a partnership with Polaris Bank Limited through its ‘Easy Buy’ Scheme to make vehicle ownership affordable to more Nigerians. The Easy Buy’, the scheme is open to prospective car owners across the country. The bank and the auto giant announced the scheme at the weekend at a joint press conference in Lagos. It comes with incentives that will afford customers and prospects the opportunity to acquire affordably brand new vehicles. CIG Chairman, Chief Diana Chen, advised prospective automobile buyers to seize the opportunity of the scheme to acquire brand new vehicles. According to her, the scheme is launched because the company “want more and more people to buy new cars in Nigeria” for the benefits of owners, industry and the country.” Polaris Bank’s Executive Director, Lagos Business, Segun Opeke, who signed the memorandum of understanding (MOU) between Polaris Bank and CIG Motors, expressed delight at the partnership, which he observed would make brand new vehicle acquisition and ownership seamless for Nigerians. “We appreciate the management of CIG Motors for this partnership as we reiterate that Polaris Bank Easy Buy Scheme offers the most valuable and seamless auto finance opportunity for those who wish to acquire and own brand new cars effortlessly,” Opeke said. Giving details of the auto finance plan, Polaris Bank’s Group Head, Products and Market Development, Adebimpe Ihekuna, said: “The Easy Buy scheme is a seamless plan for desiring customers – individual and SMEs – leveraging our technology capability, swift processing time, which is less than 24 hours.” Ihekuna further noted that the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme gives Polaris Bank customers the opportunity to secure low-interest credit for the procurement of hugely-discounted CIG Motors’ GAC range of vehicles. “You can now walk into any Polaris Bank branch to apply for credit to buy your choice GAC car and thereafter, pay conveniently,” she affirmed. 