Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Muslim Community in Oyo State has resolved to mobilise members to ensure that a Muslim from the South emerges as President of Nigeria in 2023. They claim it is the turn of a Muslim from the southern region to be president of Nigeria. The organisation made this disclosure in a communique issued at the end of its executive and stakeholders meeting in Ibadan. The organisation in the communique signed by the duo of Ishaq Kunle Sanni, Chairman and Murisiku Abidemi Siyanbade, Secretary-General, vowed to mobilise for any Muslim from the southern part of the country who indicated interest to be President in 2023. The duo explained that since Nigeria got independence in 1960, no Southern Muslim has ever occupied the number one position in Nigeria and not even the number two seat. They said for this reason, they would support only Muslim candidates from southern Nigeria to be president in 2023. The duo, in the statement made available, said they would mobilise Muslims in the country towards the emergence of a Southern Muslim President. They maintained that they would do this through physical efforts and supplications to Almighty Allah. “From the foregoing list of past Presidents/Heads of State and Vice Presidents/Chiefs of (General) Staff of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, not a single Muslim from Southern Nigeria has ever occupied the positions of President nor that of Vice President. “The meeting resolved to mobilise Muslims in Oyo State to ensure that a Muslim from the South emerges as President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. “He who must come to equity let him come with clean hands. We hereby plead with Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and other Christian groups to join hands with us, in the spirit of equity, justice and fear of God, in ensuring that a Southern Muslim becomes the next President of Nigeria. “On our own, we will mobilise Muslims in Oyo State and beyond, towards the emergence of a Southern Muslim President, through physical efforts and supplications to Almighty Allah, Rabbul’ aalamin (the Lord of all Worlds). 