Host, University of Lagos (UNILAG), yesterday, presented Torch of Unity to lead sponsor of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA), Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO) at a ceremony in Lagos, as the higher institutions sports fiesta begins tomorrow. Over 5,000 athletes from 75 accredited universities will be competing in 16 sporting events, across designated centres among tertiary institutions in the federal, state and private universities. At a ceremony to unveil GTCO as NUGA Games’ main sponsor, the Vice-Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin T. Ogundipe, lauded the bank for the role it is playing in assisting the school especially, during Industrial Training attachment and employment. “We acknowledged the part being played by the bank in the area of employment, especially our students also opportunity given to them to practice the required industrial training as we look forward to a good relationship with the bank,” he said. Speaking on the task, Group CEO, GT Holdings Company, Mr. Segun Agbaje, said the firm has benefitted a lot from the products of the school, which have added value to its operation, adding that lessons learnt in sports will also be beneficial in the banking business. “It is truly an honour to be the lead sponsor of the NUGA Games. We are doing this for a couple of reasons: aside from the fact that some of our staffers are alumni of the university, the school has also given us the best and bright people. We are partial and we’ve been partial, and so, we have to be part of this. “We like sports because we believe that sports teach people lessons of life. But it is very important to us that you compete and play by the rules and that is very important to us because our byline is also playing by the rules. “There is no way you can win if you cheat because that is an easier thing to do. The more difficult thing to do is to win fairly and play by the rules. I found out that the lessons you learnt in sports: persevering, encountering, and engaging is what business is.” “But more importantly, the rules in succeeding in sports are no different from the rules in succeeding in business. And from that perspective, we are honoured to be sponsoring the NUGA Games. And for all that are going to compete, we wish them best luck,” he stated. In attendance at the event are Executive Secretary, Nigerian University Games Association, NUGA, Dr. Joseph Awoyinfa; Deputy Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Ayodele Atsenuwa; UNILAG/ NUGA Games Lead Project and Group CE/ Founder, The Temple Company, Mr. Idris Olorunnimbe, Corporate Communications & External Relations, GT Holdings Co., Oyinade Adegite, Group Head, among other dignitaries.