• FEC okays N49 billion for roads, others
So many misconceptions around the extradition request by the United States for the embattled DCP Abba Kyari, but for a fact, the authorities are processing it, Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has stated. Speaking yesterday in Abuja, he urged the media to stop creating tension about the issue by getting a “grip of the facts to avoid creating confusion.” This is even as the government attributed the recent national grid collapse to shortage of gas and pipeline vandalism, stating that efforts were ongoing to reverse the situation. Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, who spoke to reporters after the FEC meeting in the nation’s capital, stated that concerted efforts had led to the recovery of the grid, which crashed at about 10:40a.m. on Monday, and collapsed again on Tuesday evening. On the N1 trillion debt owed Generation Companies (GENCOs), he said government was trying to resolve the crisis. The gathering also sanctioned N43,052,394,598 to facilitate completion of projects, including roads and bridges across the federation. The move followed the approval of a memo by the Ministry of Works and Housing seeking quality infrastructure in four affected areas. The Minister of State, Muazu Sambo, told newsmen that the projects include realignment of the Kano-Birnin-Kudu-Bauchi border road at the cost of N10,133,856,109, 100. He said: “The second project approved is the reconstruction of a substandard breach at Pada Road in Kogi State in the sum of N4,738,135,600 with a completion period of 18 months. “The third project is the construction of the Kaiyama Kishi Road in Oyo/Kwara states in the sum of N24,072,136,320 340 with a completion period of 36 months.” The minister said the meeting also gave vent to the reconstruction of a failing bridge along Ihugh-Damkori-Vandeikya-General Hospital Junction-Ogoja Road in Benue/Cross River states in the sum of N4,108,266,569, with a completion period of 24 months. Council further approved a memo brought by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment on behalf of the National Sugar Development Council for the construction of a N5,756,833,616 billion new corporate headquarters in Abuja, with a completion period of 24 months. The Minister, Otumba Niyi Adebayo, explained that the job of the council “is to catalyse the development of the sugar industry with a view to ensuring that Nigeria attains self-sufficiency and exportation of the product in the nearest future.”