Suspended Lagos State State Chairman of  National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Musiliu Akinsanya, also known as MC Oluomo, has announced the withdrawal of the state chapter from the national body. Rising from a meeting at the state secretariat in Agege, Lagos, Akinsanya announced the withdrawal of the state chapter from the national body. He said all attempts to have an amicable resolution to the crisis with the national body failed. He said members have protested to the Lagos State Government about the state of affairs in the union. “Being law-abiding and responsible citizens, we have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all, we will not support any action that can threaten the peace that we cherish so much in Lagos State,” Akinsanya said. “Therefore, I, Comrade Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya, on behalf of the State Administrative Council (SAC), State Executive Council (SEC) members and the entire union rank and file members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State Council with over 200 branches and zones hereby resolve to immediately withdraw of our membership and operation from the national body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos State and to write the Lagos State Governor, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and other relevant agencies about our decision,” he said. He said: “It is important to state that our action is in line with section 40 of the constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended, which provides as follows: Every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his or her interests. This means that every person shall be entitled to join an association and exit freely without molestation.” He urged union members to go about their activities without fear or molestation pending when the state government will make an announcement on their request. “If you see policemen in your parks, do not be afraid. They’re on the ground to protect us,” he said. 