Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has described Tinubu as his leader, mentor and teacher in classical politics and governance. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan yesterday, Oyetola noted that Tinubu’s style of politics and governance made the people “the ultimate beneficiaries of every decision and action of government.” ALSO, the immediate past Chairman of the Association of Local Governments in Oyo State, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, showered encomium on the national leader of the APC as he clocks 70. In a statement through his media office, Aleshinloye said: “Tinubu is a true statesman and courageous leader. His outstanding public life and contributions to the sustenance of the nation’s democracy are remarkable.” SIMILARLY, a statement signed by Postmaster-General of the Federation/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nigerian Postal Services, Dr. Ismail Adebayo Adewusi, said: I join millions of well-wishers of our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the celebration of his 70th birthday. “For us, we can only thank God for His grace over you. You have been a leader of leaders and this has manifested over the past three decades. Your footprints are indelible in good governance, economic development and leadership recruitment.” The member, representing Oluyole Federal Constituency, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, in a statement by her media aide, Lekan Olusada, eulogised the sterling qualities of the Jagaban of Nigeria, describing him as an enigma, a unique progressive political leader like no other. Chairman, Senate Committee on Industries, Adetokunbo Abiru, who represents Lagos East Senatorial District and his colleague, Senator Teslim Folarin of Oyo Central, also felicitated Tinubu on his birthday. In his message, Abiru eulogised Tinubu as a leader of leaders with an unrivalled capacity for discovering star talents that add value to people’s lives. Folarin, who is incumbent Chairman of, the Senate Committee on Local Content, said he adored Tinubu for his unwavering commitment to the unity and progress of Nigeria. The former Senate Leader described Jagaban of Borgu as a man of excellence and a true democrat who dedicated his life to the service to humanity, an advocate of good governance and the development of democracy in Nigeria.