The 2022 World Cup qualifier between Nigeria and Ghana is beyond a football match. It is a derby to crown whoever brings the best spices for a scintillating ‘jollof’ on the pitch. Nigeria versus Ghana is always contentious duel on any day regardless of what is at stake. Even a friendly does not douse the intensity both West African nations bring to the pitch. It is all or nothing. No football rivalry comes to close Jollof Derby in West Africa. This time around, it is the mother of prices in football – a spot in the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. READ MORE: Nigeria rank higher than Egypt, Ghana, Cameroon, Tunisia in latest FIFA rankings Here are some of the facts and stats you need to know about this blockbuster fixture between the Black Stars and Super Eagles. Nigeria and Ghana have faced each other a total of 56 times in all competitions including friendlies. Ghana have defeated Nigeria 25 times, with Nigeria only recording victory 12 times. Matches between the two have ended in a draw on 19 occasions. Nigeria have recorded greater success at the World Cup, amassing a total of 21 points since their debut in the United States in 1994. Ghana have 19 points since their debut in 2006 when they first appeared at the tournament hosted in Germany. However, Nigeria’s 21 points were recorded over six tournaments while Ghana’s 19 came in just three tournaments. What’s more? Ghana have gone farther in a World Cup than Nigeria after reaching the quarterfinals in South Africa in 2010. Nigeria have never gone beyond the second round, doing so on three occasions – in 1994, 1998, and 2014. Ghana are coming into the game against Nigeria in one of their worst run of form. Nigeria also rank higher in the 32nd spot on the current FIFA standings, better than Ghana’s ranking of 61. The Black Stars were knocked out of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in the group stages without winning a single game. Nigeria, on the other hand, won all three matches in the 2021 AFCON group stage but were knocked out by Tunisia in the round of 16. 