 Stairway to heaven Photo A Wanderful Sole The Bible leaves a detailed description of what Heaven is like.   A place free of death and suffering, filled with magnificent angels and heavenly chorus 24/7. Rather than wait to experience this beauty, a unique pilgrimage report in Iloilo has created a heaven on earth experience that allows visitors to experience all Heaven without journeying to the afterlife; Garin Farm. Garin Farm Pilgrimage Resort, San Joaquin, consists of a farm, leisure part, and retreat place just an hour and half from the city of Iloilo. Garin Farm Pilgrimage Resort in San Joaquin, Iloilo, is a farm, a leisure park, and a retreat place all in one. Located an hour and a half from Iloilo City, a place where you can breathe fresh air and find peace. The famed highlight of Garin Farm is the Stairway to Heaven, a giant outdoor stairway that leads to the out-of-the-world replica of Heaven on earth. The construction of the resort owned by former First District of Iloilo representative and current mayor of Guimbal town, Oscar Garin Sr., began in 2014. A huge arch marks the 30-minute uphill walk at the stairway’s base, reminding visitors what the climb is about. Stairway to Heaven Photo The Nurse Wanderer “A journey from creation to ascension. You are entering a spiritual area. Humility is the key to eternity.” The sides of the stairway is decorated with life-size statues of biblical characters portraying some scenes in the Bible, depicting scenes from Genesis. However, if climbing the 480 steps to the top of the hill doesn’t seem like your thing, you can opt to take the go-carts that’ll bring you to the meditation tunnel. On the long climb, you can find rest at the different stations of the cross. Stairway to Heaven Photo Instagram garinfarmpilgrimageresort Divine Mercy Dark Meditation Tunnel The Divine Mercy Dark Meditation Tunnel, as the name serves, allows visitors to reflect as they navigate their way through the tunnel until they find the light literally. The pitch darkness begins to fade as you approach the prayer room where the stained glass window of Jesus Christ is placed. Within the unpainted tunnel, walls are wooden chairs, and soft, airy orchestra music serenades you as you begin your walk into another archway to another tunnel. At the end of this much shorter walk is the LIGHT. You’ll be greeted by a massive white landscape, a reminder of melted fluffy clouds backed by the soft blue sky and dome tips of trees. But it isn’t cold; instead, the shining sun illuminates this whiteness, birthing a familiar warmth. Stairway to Heaven Photo Instagram garinfarmpilgrimageresort The path to the top of the stairway features angels with harps on both sides and at the entrance of the hill is a gate with a statue of Sanit Peter welcoming you as the Bible describes. The main area, white as snow, features the Holy Trinity held aloft facing the gate by cloud carvings. Stairway to Heaven Photo TripAdvisor You’d also see first hand the huge cross in the middle and angels worshiping with their hands and trumpets. Stairway to Heaven Photo Instagram garinfarmpilgrimageresort Stairway to Heaven Photo World Footprints While being a religious mark, the Stairway to Heaven is open to all. It requires no religious devotion but provides a great view of nature and the beauty of Christianity. Experiencing this beauty comes at a small fee of 150 pesos which covers the pilgrimage and farm access. After visiting the pilgrimage, you can also try other offers recreational activities such as horseback riding, zip line, and hilltop boating, among many others.