The International and Ibero-American Foundation for Administration and Public  Polices (FIIAPP) has called for a joint effort by the public against trafficking in persons and smuggling migrants in the country. The Team Leader, FIIAPP, Mr Rafael Rios-Molina, made the call at the end of a three-day awareness campaign, road walk and enlightenment programmes it organised in some selected schools in Awka. Rios-Molina was represented by Mr Joseph Sanwo, a Senior Project Officer, Action Against Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of migrants (A-TIPSOM) Nigeria. He urged the residents to partner with the group to stamp out the menace of human trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrant in the state. Sanwo said the group had done its best in sensitising Anambra residents on dangers and consequences associated with human trafficking and smuggling of migrants, urging them to understand that human trafficking was real. “We were able to hold a town hall meeting with stakeholders’ forum, where all relevant peoples related to the issue converged and brainstorm on how to reduce the level of human trafficking in Anambra. “We tried to enlighten the stakeholders on how to ensure that residents of the state do not engage in human trafficking and smuggling migrants. “We used the road walk show to enlighten the people in the streets, markets, motor parks and passers-by about the red lights of these human trafficking agents, the indicators of these traffickers to avoid it,” he said. Sanwo said that the group had visited some secondary schools in the state to sensitise the students and youths who are targets of these human traffickers on how to detect them or their agents and resist their bad offer. “Usually these traffickers lure the youths with gainful jobs and promises of taking them abroad to secure well paid jobs, all these are deceits. We were able to enlighten the youth not to fall prey,” he said. Sanwo said that group had done its best with three days quality sensisitation, awareness show and points of signs to look out in persons who appears to them as friends or relatives with strange promises. Sanwo advised parents to be weary of whom they give their children to for purposes of getting jobs in order to support them cushion the effect of economic hardship for the family. He advised parents to ask questions from such people who visit to request the stay of their children with them before allowing such movement because most of them do not end up as promised. Mrs Lilian Ezenwa, the National Vice President of Network Against Child trafficking, Abuse and Labour (NACTAL) described the programme as a huge success because they were able to reach out to relevant stakeholders in the issue. Ezenwa said that the choice of Anambra for the programme was based on high reports of child kidnapping, harvesting and selling of organs, human trafficking and smuggling of migrants in the state. She said the group had informed the traditional rulers and other relevant bodies about its findings and on how to catch up on those involved. Ezenwa said that they visited Igwebuike Grammar School, Girls Secondary School, Awka amongst others to sensisitise them on the presence of human traffickers and dangers associated with such movement. “Traffickers usually go for the unsuspecting youths who are desirous to make money so they sell the dummy to these young adults who key in without doubts. “We also discussed extensively and entertained questions from these young minds and satisfied that the explanations given to them and solutions proffered was well taken by the students was a plus for us,” she said. Ezenwa said that Easter celebration was around the corner and urged parents to watch out for anybody with strange movement around their homes especially those who come to rent room for couple of months in their areas. “Landlord should know the people they rent houses to make them provide known sureties as these traffickers  who ran from Edo  now lives within our zones to plan and carry out their enterprise,” she said Ezenwa urged the public to call the following telephones to alert the civil societies involved in fighting against human traffickers and smuggling of migrants in the state on 08035892100, 08035264939 and 08063940948. Miss Chisom Okafor, one of the students interviewed, said that she just heard about the story of the human traffickers in details and promised to be very careful Okafor expressed satisfaction on the way the enlightenment programme was explained in a simple words and clarity. Miss Chiamaka Ogbonna, also a student confirmed that some people usually parked into their compound but after some months they would vacate without any reason of parking out. “I now understand the possibilities of these people vacating their residence when there are no troubles between them and other tenants, am just thinking out,” she said NAN reports that the 3-day programme  was orgainsed  by FIIAP under A-TIPSOM supported programme by European Union in collaboration with NAPTIP and NACTAL Anambra chapter. 