Source: https://unsplash.com/photos/5hcV51EeeWc Are you a beginner when it comes to trading? Then one of the first steps is to find the right broker. But how can you do that, and why do you have to be careful when making your choice? We will give you all the information that you need! Especially as a beginner in trading, it can be a difficult task to determine if a broker is legit or not. Beginners don’t have the knowledge and experience to see a red flag and therefore are more likely to get scammed. This is why it is essential to do your research and find platforms you can trust. Unfortunately, where there is money, scammers are usually not far away. They create fake brokerages and scam you out of your money. This is frustrating, and in most cases, you can’t do anything against these scammers because they are working from different countries. If you want to start and find the right broker, you should look at our tips and tricks! Are you a beginner and currently looking for a good broker? If so, we have all the best tips and tricks for you to determine if a broker is legit or a scam! Unfortunately, many beginners are motivated to start as soon as possible. They don’t want to wait and do their research; that’s why it is more likely that they end up with a scammer. Before you even start looking at brokers, you need to know what you are looking for. Not every broker offers the same trading methods; that’s why you need to get to know different assets and trading methods to filter out the broker that doesn’t provide what you want. If you found some brokers you are interested in, the next step should be reading the reviews. This will help you get a better feeling of how legit this broker is. Have a look at trusted-broker-reviews.com; here, you can find a great variety of different brokers that you might be interested in using. Now read the reviews and learn from former and current users’ experiences. Did you make a decision? Before you invest money in this broker, we advise you to use a demo account. Not only will you be able to determine if trading and the trading method is the right choice for you, but you can also test the broker. See how the navigation works, how easy or difficult it is to trade, and see if you want to use this broker or not. If not, just continue doing your research. Customer support is an essential part of a broker and an excellent way to determine if a broker is legit or a scam. Unfortunately, it can always come with problems and questions. Therefore you need a broker and a customer service that you can trust. Contact the customer service of your choice. How can you reach it? How long does it take for them to reply? How helpful was the answer? Was it just a copy-paste answer? If the interaction with the customer support left you feeling unsure about this broker, we recommend looking for a different option. 