August 29, 2009, Rachael Akiomuado Ogirri Onukaba, his wife, tragically died of cerebral malaria at 32. A thoroughly flustered, despondent, bewildered and despairing Onukaba, soldiered on bravely for six years before marrying Memunat Aliyu-Onukaba, at a quiet ceremony attended by just a handful of we his close friends, in Kaduna. The union produced Onyeche, the baby of the family.
 
Amidst the general lachrymose and pervading gloom which attended Onukaba’s demise, Atiku established an “Adinoyi-Ojo Onukaba Endowment Fund,” to support the young family. At the fundraiser in Abuja, on May 2, 2017, about N13 million was aggregated in cash and promissory notes. Atiku made the single largest contribution of N10 million. A Board of Trustees, chaired by this writer, which includes select family members and intimate friends of Onukaba, was emplaced. Side by side with this effort, Taiwo Obe, a longstanding friend of Onukaba, rallied friends and colleagues on the Lagos stretch, to poll resources for the family.
 
Happily, Onukaba’s family is wearing a brave face and trying to cope without their father. In the absence of both biological parents for Asuku and Ebikere, Memunat their stepmother is filling the gap, as well as she can. Onukaba’s siblings, notably Audu, have also been supportive. Frugal management of the Endowment Fund ensured that Asuku and Ebikere continued their educational progression in one of the topmost private secondary schools in Abuja. They completed their Senior Secondary School Education, (SSCE), in flying colours in that institution without being dislocated from an environment they had aclimatised in overtime.
 
August 24, 2019, Atiku from his abode in Dubai, fulfilled his pledge, two years earlier, to grant fully-funded scholarships to any of Onukaba’s children desirous of studying at the American University of Nigeria (AUN), in Yola, owned by him. Asuku Onukaba, who turned 19 recently, is in his third-year studying Software Engineering, in the institution. Ebikere has been taken up by her maternal uncles, Festus and Kenneth Ogirri, who both live in Houston. Because she’s just 16, she’s been enrolled in a community college, pending her transfer to the university, when she is of age. Ebikere’s aunt, Ethel Ogirri-Omeye, lives next door in Canada, with her family. Last year, the proprietor of the “Cradle To Harvard” schools in Abuja, Phrank Shaibu, awarded a full scholarship to Onyeche, now five years old. 