Team Lagos thrashed Team Ekiti 258 runs in the ongoing of the South West Cricket Tournament known as Bademosi Cup at the Obafemi Awolowo Cricket Pitch, Ibadan. History making Team Lagos won the toss and selected to bat first and scored 284 runs for the loss of 5 wickets in 20 overs. Rilwane AbdulKareem scored 86 runs off 45 balls, Alabi Eriola scored 61runs off 33 balls, while Ayinde Olademeji scored 25 runs off 18 balls for Team Lagos. Chidera, Tobi Esan, Samuel Omotara and Fakayode Blessing all took 1 wicket each in the first innings. In the second innings, Team Ekiti had  26 runs all out in 17.5 overs  which was not enough to cancel Team Lagos’ 284 runs. Rilwane AbdulKareem and Ayinde Olademeji both took 5 and 3 wickets, while Raheem Ramon had 2 wickets to draw the game’s courting. After the landslide victory, Team Lagos prolific batman, Rilwane AbdulKareem said scoring 86 runs in a T20 format match was a result of hard work despite aiming to attain century in that match. “When I entered the Cruse, I did not do anything extra, all what I did was to push the balls and get singles and when the bad balls come I went for them till I had 86 runs despite that I am targeting a century. “I was very sad when I was bowled out although fatigue set in but instead of holding to myself, I was anxious to play a short but it’’s always like that if one is getting to 50 runs or a century,” AbdulKareem said. Ahead of the final match today, the former Yellow-Green Junior player said, their victory against Ekiti State was more like a test-run to prepare them against Team Oyo. The Ibeju Lekki Cricket Club enigmatic player affirmed his readiness against Team Oyo pointing out that their breaking record in the history of T20 in Nigeria would not get into heads when they file out against the host. “The strategy we used in beating Ekiti State will come to play against Oyo. The landslide victory against Ekiti was like a test-run and we will not allow it to get into our heads because we are battle read for the final encounter on Saturday (today),” AbdulKareem added. 