“When experience is not retained, as among savages, infancy is perpetual… Those, who cannot remember the past, are condemned to repeat it,” is a popular quote from a Spanish-American scholar and philosopher, George Santayana, in trying to emphasise on the need for lessons of history to be retained and worked with.  
 
The reasons for the crisis currently rocking Russia and Ukraine are not far fetched from the reasons for the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962, which almost plunged humanity into the Third World War, but mutual fear and diplomacy on the sides of the actors, saved the world from drawn nuclear Armageddon.
 
The Cuban Crisis and Russo-Ukrainian crisis have common similarities. The fear of one country setting up missiles based around its territory and becoming a potential threat to its existence and internal security is a major problem in international relations and politics.
 
Invasion of Ukraine by Russia became pertinent and subject to military morality to ward off potential enemies, hence Russia tries to protect her territory and eastern bloc, which had been surrounded by enemies from the North and allies within.  As a result, NATO moved hundreds of miles closer to Moscow, directly bordering Russia, a situation Mr. Putin didn’t find funny.
 
In 2008, NATO stated that it planned — some day — to enroll Ukraine, though that is still seen as a far-off prospect. Mr. Putin has described the Soviet disintegration as a catastrophe that robbed Russia of its rightful place among the world’s great powers and put it at the mercy of a predatory West. He has spent his 22 years in power rebuilding Russia’s military and reasserting its geopolitical clout.
 
The Russian president calls NATO’s expansion menacing, and the prospect of Ukraine joining NATO, a major threat to his country. As Russia has grown more assertive and stronger militarily, his complaints about NATO have grown more strident. 
 
He has repeatedly invoked the specter of American ballistic missiles and combat forces in Ukraine, though U.S., Ukrainian and NATO officials insist there are none.
 
But East-West relations worsened drastically in early 2014, when mass protests in Ukraine forced out a president closely allied with Mr. Putin. Russia swiftly invaded and annexed Crimea, part of Ukraine.
 
It was said that Moscow also fomented a separatist rebellion that took control of part of the Donbas region of Ukraine, in a war that still grinds on, having killed over 13, 000 people.
 
Mr. Putin appears intent on winding back the clock more than 30 years, establishing a broad, Russian-dominated security zone resembling the power Moscow wielded in Soviet days.
 
Now 69 years old and possibly edging toward the twilight of his political career, he clearly wants to draw Ukraine, a nation of 44 million people, back into Russia’s sphere of influence.
 
Putin said Ukraine shouldn’t join NATO, demanding that the West draw down its forces in the Eastern European countries that have already joined, but the West dismissed the main demands out of hand, while making overtures on other concerns, and threatening sanctions.  
 
Moscow’s aggressive posture has also inflamed Ukrainian nationalism, with citizen militias preparing for a drawn-out guerrilla campaign in the event of a Russian occupation.  Instead, the United States has sent anti-tank and antiaircraft weapons to Ukraine, increased the American military presence in NATO countries that border Russia, and ordered an additional 7,000 troops to Europe. The Pentagon also ordered the deployment of an armored brigade combat team to Germany to reassure skittish NATO allies in Eastern Europe. Administration officials also warned that the United States could throw its weight behind a Ukrainian insurgency. But the real cudgel is financial. Before the invasion, Mr. Biden threatened Mr. Putin with “economic consequences like none he’s ever seen.” Afterward, he began to put them in place. Mr. Biden, vowing to turn Mr. Putin into a “pariah,” has announced tough new sanctions aimed at cutting off Russia’s largest banks and some oligarchs, from much of the global financial system and preventing the country from importing American technology critical to its defense, aerospace and maritime industries. The administration has also issued sanctions against the company behind an energy pipeline connecting Russia to Germany. Mr. Biden has also said the United States was freezing trillions of dollars in Russian assets, including the funds controlled by Russian elites and their families, making them pay for what the American president called “a premeditated attack” against a free nation in Europe. Western governments have also vowed to freeze assets belonging to Mr. Putin, but very little is known about what he owns and where it might be. The Biden administration could also institute sanctions that could deprive Russians of their beloved next-generation phones, laptops and other gadgets.