Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, at the weekend, said he had no plan of defecting from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), urging anyone uncomfortable with his leadership of the party to leave. The governor, who stated that the party had been fully harmonised, stressed that the constitution of the party bequeaths him with the leadership of the party in the state, a position, which is not up for contest by anyone. Obaseki said this during an expanded caucus meeting of leaders and members of the PDP in the state. “I can’t leave PDP. I will not decamp from the PDP; we will always win any election. PDP won in the last election and we will continue to win all elections in the state and country; nothing will stop us as a party,” he said. The governor noted that the forthcoming local government election in the state would set the template for next year’s national and legislative elections, urging party members to reflect on the elections and work in unity to ensure victory in the polls. He said: “There is no division in Edo PDP. Let the party be open to accommodate others. PDP is democratic. The hallmark of democracy is ensuring that the majority has their way, as the minority can’t dictate to the people. “I heard that Chief Dan Orbih went around, saying there is no harmonisation in Edo PDP. This is really irresponsible to say and an insult to members of the party, as the party has truly harmonised in the state.” Obaseki disclosed that the PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, would visit the state on Thursday, urging party leaders to bring along five per cent of newly registered members to welcome the party chair. “Politics is not about fighting but dialogue and discussion. I urge us to collaborate and unite to move the party and state forward,” he charged. Noting that over 539,000 members have been registered in the ongoing e-registration exercise, Obaseki said, “These numbers are not fabricated as we have the data, pictures, emails and phone numbers of members of the party we have registered so far. You have broken records, as this is the bastion of PDP in Nigeria. We have changed the face of politics in Nigeria.” The Chairman of PDP in Edo State, Anthony Aziegbemi, said: “Edo State is the only state in the nation that has surpassed the 500,000 thresholds for e-registration of the party.” Others at the meeting were Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu; Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), Marcus Onobun; Senator Matthew Urhoghide; Senator Clifford Odia; Chief Tom Ikimi; Joe Edionwele and National Youth Deputy Leader of PDP, Timothy Osadolor, among others.