Professor Augustus Olatunji Vidal is a Professor of Music and Musicology. He was an alumnus of the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and was for many years, the Head of Department (HOD) of the Department of Music at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. He was also a former Dean of the Faculty of Arts, OAU.
 
We, his students, call him Major G, Oluaye, Iroko and so on. Professor Vidal is a man of keen and farsighted penetration and judgement. Oluaye is a shrewd, sagacious, perspicacious and astute scholar. Major G is a man, whose acuteness of mental discernment and soundness of judgement, is non-negotiable. We thank God for giving him to humanity and academia, as an unquantifiable gift. His research, especially on Oriki in traditional Yoruba music, speaks volume of the atypical academic he is. His works, such as: “The Tonemic and Melodic Character and Yoruba Principal Chants”, “The Role and Function of Music in Yoruba festivals”, “The Arts Complex as a Communicative System in an Oral Society” among so many others, are classical works. 
 
His inaugural lecture in 2002 titled, “Institutionalisation of Western Musical Culture and Search for National Identity”, was classical in its delivery at the Oduduwa Hall, University of Ife.  He consults those books for literature review.) Professor Vidal would never allow any student to help him with his loads of books to the extent that, anytime he is coming, students would just be going about their normal routine and he doesn’t bother anybody. I was so elated when in our year three, Prof. took us a course on Research Methodology and field work. That made us understand how a simple man he is and at the same time, how accessible he is. He would answer questions freely, outside of the class and he likes to engage his students in discussions, in ways that show intellectual depth.  The former was the father of Emmanuel (fondly called Emman) Vidal. History has it that Emman Vidal was the third son of Mr. Owens Vidal, who migrated to Lagos in the late 19th century from the Itoko area of Abeokuta and together with the missionaries, brought Christianity to Lagos. Emman became a member of the Parochial Church Council (PCC) of St. John’s Anglican Church, Aroloya Lagos, was in fact the father of Josiah Ekundayo Vidal (Augustus’ father).
 
As a little boy, he used to watch Kobina W. Crepphy, popularly known in Lagos as “Papa Crepphy”, a Ghanian musician anytime he played Organ voluntarily at the end of divine services at St. John’s Aroloya, Lagos and he was so impressed with Crepphy’s foot-works on the pedals. Little Vidal would then go home after Church services to try to simulate what he had seen at church services with the pipe organ, on the piano in their living room or any available structure.
 
Augustus’ musical career began in 1951, when he was nine years old. At such a young age, he became a member of the Church choir, attending choir practices every week and singing the soprano part with the choir of St. John’s Anglican Church, Aroloya, Lagos at divine services every Sunday. However, he had his first stage experience at the age of seven, when he acted in a short drama sketch, based on Yoruba alphabets at the end of the year theatrical entertainment of the Church’s Sunday school presentation. As a member of the Choir, he learnt the rudiments of Music, Ear and Vocal training and developed musical memory, which is an essential requirement for any member of the choir.
 
He started to receive his piano training at the age of fourteen, from Messrs. Kobina Crepphy and Hector Labinjo, both of whom were at one time or the other renowned Organists of St. John’s Church Aroloya, Lagos. He later enrolled at Major Allen, a retired army officer and Labour officer for his advanced studies on the piano. As a student in Methodist Boys’ High School, Broad Street Lagos, he was the school pianist from 1957 – 1959, during which he played hymns and marches every morning for morning assembly.  Dr. Asaolu is of the Department of Performing Arts (Music Unit), Olabisi Onabanjo University Ago-Iwoye.