To expand the frontiers for e-sport in Nigeria and across Africa, the continent’s biggest e-gaming company, Gamr Africa, an online subscription platform that allows gamers to interact with themselves, has signed a partnership deal with Nigeria University Games (NUGA) to introduce e-sports to all the country’s universities. NUGA President, Prof. Stephen Hamafyelto (left) and Chief Operating Officer, Gamr Africa, Sholakunmi Adenipebi, at the official signing of the partnership between Gamr and NUGA in Lagos…on Monday<br />  Speaking at the event, Chief Operating Officer, Sholakunmi Adenipebi, said: “We are in a partnership with NUGA to introduce e-sport to all universities under the body, and demonstrate career opportunities that exists in the gaming and e-sports industry.” He revealed that there are huge opportunities for e-sport in Africa, adding, “most game publishing companies are trying to break into the African market. Introducing e-sports into the tertiary eco-system enables students to follow their dreams of becoming game developers, streamers and professional e-sports players.” Also speaking on the pact, NUGA President, Professor Stephen Hamafyelto, said the deal would enable more students to focus their minds on positive ideas using e-sports. He added that it is a way to expand “students’ brains to also enable them tap into the huge opportunities that e-sport provide. We are encouraged that e-sport will be used as a vehicle to discourage negative attitude in the university system while students will focus on developing games software etc. “We will be working closely with director sports in the system to achieve huge success with this.” “Gamr is challenging this through its subscription service platform, which enables gamers to participate in esports’ tournaments and allows organizers to reach players across Africa. It is also assisting talented players in progressing from hobbyist participants to esports professionals by providing coaching and access to player analytics on its platform using artificial intelligence technology.”