President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to collaborate with security agencies to end insecurity, just as he commended security personnel for their courage in promoting peace and order in the country. He said: “Security is not just a military concern but a challenge for all Nigerians. No matter the amount of money invested in military operations, without the support of the people, display of patriotism and preparedness for everyone to take ownership of securing our environment, success will be limited.” Speaking at the opening ceremony of the Alumni Association of the National Defence College (AANDEC), the President said Nigeria could achieve more in bringing law and order to all parts of the country with the cooperation of citizens. “We must look beyond the military and the security agencies for enduring solutions to the security challenges we are facing,” he said. President Buhari said the administration had initiated measures to adequately support the Nigerian Armed Forces and other security agencies in terms of modern equipment, boosting the manpower of all security agencies and financing their operations in Nigeria and other international assignments. “We have also initiated a National Development Plan (2021-2025) covering medium and long-term plans, with a vision to make Nigeria a country that has unlocked its potentials in all sectors of the economy for sustainable, holistic and inclusive national development. “We will in this regard be building a thriving and sustainable economy while improving access to quality education, enhance social inclusion as well as expand infrastructure among several others. All of these desirables can only be achieved in a peaceful and secure environment,” he added. The President said security outfits in the country deserve commendation for the efforts in tackling banditry, kidnapping and terrorism, adding: “I am proud of the achievements of the security agencies in dealing with terrorism, insurgency, banditry and the unknown gunmen in the North West and other parts of the country.” “These issues and challenges are being professionally handled by the Armed Forces and other security agencies with improved intelligence operations and effective collaboration in the Armed Forces and other agencies. Speaking, Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd), said Nigerians had been resilient in the face of challenges, adding that security outfits should also be aware of citizens’ rights and assured that the Federal Government would keep supporting the military to ensure promotion of peace and order. On his part, President of AANDEC, Air Commodore Darlington Abdullahi, stressed the need to change the country’s narrative, adding that Nigerians had made indelible marks in fields of endeavor and had greatly impacted the global economy. Abdullahi said efforts at re-orientation should be deliberate, starting from schools and other public institutions and it must be sustained, with focus on values ensure honour, respect for national symbols, diligence, honesty and integrity.