Rotary Club of Folomo has empowered police officers’ wives in Folomo Barracks, Lagos, with skills in various trades to make them entrepreneurs. Also, 10 women benefitted from a N500,000 loan, with each getting N50,000 to start a business. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Elizabeth Gwalkywa, who was visibly elated, said she was happy not only for herself but also for some of her neighbours, who were full-time housewives but would become self-employed as they have been taught how to be useful in their homes by learning small trades through the skills acquisition programme and got loans to start any business of their interest. The welfare officer of the barracks, Mrs. Folashade Bello, said she was happy with the succour given to the women by Rotary Club of Folomo. She said, “The N500,000 was shared as loan to 10 beneficiaries, meaning that each person got N50,000. People may think that money is too small, but some people are going to be counting their own money in a’ few months’ time and begin to assist their families. Our husbands’ salaries are too small. “I want to sincerely thank Rotary Club for its good gestures and services to humanity. We appreciate you, but, like Oliver Twist, we ask for more money and that you extend your assistance to more beneficiaries.” Earlier, image-maker of Rotary Club, Folomo, Mr. Ibrahim Sule, warned against using the money to cook soups or for other things contrary to the purpose that the money was meant for. “They should know that the loan is tied to Nigeria Police Microfinance Bank, where their husbands who are policemen receive their monthly salaries. After six months and the loan is not paid, the money will be deducted from their husbands salaries, which is not good,” Sule said. “They should be able to assist their husbands. Anyway, our president, Ijeoma Onyeador, has preached to them a lot and a word is enough for the wise.” President, Rotary Club of Folomo, Ijeoma Onyeador, said the club renders services to humanity and, by so doing, it decided to extend the same services to Folomo Police Barracks, “Where we have trained some women with skill acquisition, how to do some-scale businesses that would uplift their families.” She said, “The major programme is the microfinance long-term N500,000 loan we are giving them. The loan has been given to 10 beneficiaries, each received N50,000, to start small businesses. Although some of them have existing businesses, they can add the loan to expand their businesses.  Really, we have empowered the women to improve the lives of their families. “We are going to monitor the beneficiaries to make sure that they utilize the loan very well. That is why we gave them the loan through Nigeria Police Microfinance Bank, where their husbands receive their salaries. The bank knows how to manage such loans. We are also partnering with market leaders and barracks leaders, who will monitor the beneficiaries. We have no fear that they will not pay back the loan. “A lot can be achieved with N50,000. We did business survey and assessment in the barracks and we also did other evaluations to know the area we would train them. We trained them in liquid soap making and other things. Some of them will now deal in groceries, groundnut, water and other things. We are going to give more loans once they are able to pay back the one given to them.” 