Princewill tasks Nigerians on maximising potential The Federal Government, yesterday, disclosed that it has secured investors who visited its pavilion at the ongoing Dubai Expo 2020 exhibitions, urging more investors, especially the international community to invest in Nigeria. An official of the Ministry of Trade and Investment, Abubakar Mohammed Yaisa, who spoke with journalists at the event, said Nigeria was at the Expo to showcase the nation’s untapped potential due to lack of adequate resources to maximise them. He, however, expressed delight that the Nigerian team showcased the several untapped resources in Nigeria to potential investors, who visited the pavilion, especially after President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to the exhibition stand. “President Buhari’s visit at the exhibition centre created the desired impact because he highlighted our potential and the people responded and gave their assurances that they are ready to partner with Nigeria. “They indicated an interest in the power and agricultural sectors and testified that it will be rewarding to invest in the country,” he said. The Dubai Expo, which started six months ago and will end on March 31, 2022, was originally scheduled for between October 20, 2020, and April 10, 2021, but was shifted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Expo, said to be one of the largest major global events, was aimed at helping countries to showcase their potential in technology, health and artificial intelligence, among others and to also woo investors and partners. The Guardian learnt that India, Russia, the United States (U.S.), China, Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Nigeria and other countries participated at the Expo and they all set up their pavilions to showcase their products, talents and potential. Also, several blue chip companies in the world, as well as big investors participated at the Expo 2020 in Dubai. Speaking further, Yaisa said: “The patronage here is good because one can not come here without meeting people, who are desirous of networking for businesses and partnership. There are many investors asking questions and they are keen on knowing how to partner with Nigeria. “The essence of the expo is for us to showcase our talents, resources and untapped potential. Probably, our resources are not enough to tap the potential. And so, we are inviting investors from the international community to come and invest in Nigeria.” He, however, lamented that the country failed to prepare adequately to explore available opportunities at the Expo like preparing Nigeria’s local food, which he said, would have made Nigerians happier and further increase the country’s revenue base. Meanwhile, a Nigerian businessman, who partnered with the Dubai Department of Economy and Tourism through his foundation, Tonye Princewill, described developments in the United Arab Emirate (UAE) as inspiring and worth emulating. He challenged Nigerian leaders and the citizens to open their eyes and not only see opportunities in all things but also begin to harvest and maximise them. Also speaking, a Russian, Mjee Mjee, said: “We enjoy our stay, the technologies, innovations, intelligence is overwhelming. There is evidential and practical proof of everything, not like other parts of the country where their achievements are only on paper work.”