 Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, FIFA (www.FIFA.com) has been closely monitoring the situation in order to remain in the best possible position to assist Ukrainian clubs and players in any way, including by adopting temporary amendments to its regulations.  On 7 March 2022, the Bureau of the FIFA Council decided to temporarily amend the Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players (RSTP) (https://fifa.fans/3qahcFM) to provide urgent legal certainty and clarity on a number of regulatory matters, and an Interpretative Note was enclosed with circular no. 1787 (https://fifa.fans/3qajepM) to provide appropriate guidance to member associations and their stakeholders. The recent developments in Ukraine have led to a need for further clarification concerning the registration of players of Ukrainian nationality with clubs affiliated to other member associations. Accordingly, the Bureau of the Council has today decided to amend Annexe 7 of the RSTP (https://fifa.fans/3CO2F7R) to provide Ukrainian players with the opportunity to be registered, should they be allowed to leave the country in accordance with current rules on the cross-border movement of Ukrainian nationals. Therefore, Annexe 7 now clearly explains that Ukrainian players may be allowed to be registered with another club even if that registration period is closed in the association of the club with which they intend to be registered. In addition, the new amendments clarify that clubs are entitled to register a maximum of two professional players who have benefited from the exceptions provided in Annexe 7. The Interpretive Note to Annexe 7 (https://fifa.fans/3MRvntr)  has also been amended where relevant to provide clarity and precision on these latest amendments. FIFA will continue to monitor the situation in Ukraine closely to ensure that the regulatory framework reflects any developments. It also continues to condemn the ongoing use of force by Russia in Ukraine and calls for a rapid cessation of hostilities and for a return to peace. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FIFA. Contact for African media: AfricanMedia@fifa.org