• Recounts struggles for democracy, APC
• Asks senators to support ‘lifetime ambition’
• ‘My goal not to step on Buhari’s toes, but step in his shoes’
• We wish you well in your enterprise, Lawan tells Tinubu The meeting was emotionally charged, yesterday. There was rapt attention, as over 70 members of All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the Senate gathered to hear the former Lagos State governor and National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, appeal to them to give him their support. The scheduling of the meeting couldn’t have been better. Tinubu at a time his ‘house is in commotion’. He was effusive in his discussion with the senators. He revealed that despite cases of backstabbing, his belief in God would see him through in his presidential ambition. The visit represented a fond homecoming for the former Senator, as Asiwaju and the legislators deliberated on a wide range of issues. Asiwaju recalled his own time in the Senate before turning the attention of those present to his conception of the legislature as the essence of representative democracy. Addressing caucus members, he said: “The essence of representative democracy is the assemblage of the prudent and the wise to pass just laws for the benefit of the people. The legislation this body passes shall determine the fate of this nation. By what I have seen of your work and words, I can truly say this nation has been in good hands.” Tinubu, who took time to narrate his ordeals in the fight for democracy, made it clear that his visit was to seek support and partnership of the lawmakers for the realisation of his ambition in 2023. He said his ambition is not blind to make him step on the toes of President Muhammadu Buhari. Rather, he intends to step into the shoes of the President in 2023. He also appreciated efforts of the Ahmed Lawan-led Senate in promoting unity and peace through its legislation. Reminding the Senate of the lessons in the first stanza of Nigeria’s first National Anthem, Tinubu charged the Upper House to continue to legislate in support of the country’s stability and unity. According to him, courage is very necessary for leadership, as he made reference to the recent electoral act amendment, where President Buhari had wanted section 84(12) deleted, which the Senate rejected overwhelmingly. He said the President of the Senate demonstrated courage in leadership. His words: “You did it recently there was a bill before you that wants alteration. I watched you sitting as President, I saw the gavel in the hand of the Senate President, as he put the question, the Nay was loudest, yes was quiet and he explained. “That is courage, that is the courage that the nation needs. The Senate President I will continue to respect you the rest of my life. “The Senate President, you have shown unusual leadership since you assumed leadership of this Senate. “You have navigated the mine field in the effort of putting our country together unity in diversity. How I wish you use that unity and diversity for our prosperity “I have seen the harmonious relationship with the executive, I have seen the cordiality between the National Assembly and the executive as something germane to national development and progress.” The former Lagos governor said, “it is crucially important that you do your job in the atmosphere of no intimidation or bully. You have been doing that. You are careful as a team leader to build a very successful team that is navigating this country very well in the right direction. On his ambition, which is the crux of his visit, Tinubu also appealed to the party’s senators to support his presidential ambition. The former Lagos State governor asked the lawmakers to back his ambition based on his capacity and experience. He said, “Why am I here? I came for your counsel, partnership and support. Nigeria has come to that stage where we need a change of baton. The President is rounding off his second term. “Election is coming up in February. We have various programmes that I don’t have to restate here: nomination process, primary process and all of that. I can’t do it by myself and I can’t do it by sitting at home, expecting that many personal friends that I have here will do it for me. I believe jointly, we can do it. You can back me successfully for the nomination of my lifetime ambition. “If the counsel of wise men is anything to go by, ‘if you want to go fast, do it alone, but if you want to get there successfully, definitely, go with a team’. I’m asking for that ‘teamsmanship’ here today. Get me over the hump of the nomination process and from that, get me to the presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Responding, the Senate President said that the APC Senate Caucus was a central and fundamental pillar of the party. “This caucus has remained committed to the party, shown resolve to our manifesto to work within us and the Executive. We have achieved so much because of the APC caucus. “From 2019 that this caucus showed loyalty, commitment and purposeful orientation to ensure that our victory from 2015 and 2019 as a political party are fully utilised for the benefits of Nigerians. On the leadership crisis in the party, Lawan said, “recently we have had difficulty because of misunderstanding between some of our members and the party had been thrown into a temporary confusion. “I thank God it is over now. It is very clear that our party is back on track that in the next two weeks, our national convention will hold and a new set of leaders will emerge.” Lawan, thereafter, wished Tinubu well and success in ‘this enterprise’, saying, “all of us wish you well, wish you success in this and in the affairs of fighting for APC to continue to be the ruling party in Nigeria justifiably so; your Excellency, we are with you. Former senators on his entourage included Adedayo Adeyeye (Ekiti), Abu Ibrahim (Katsina) and Iyiola Omisore (Osun). 