Nigeria has evacuated 807 of its citizens from war-raged Ukraine as at Saturday. The evacuees arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on three flights. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the first batch of 450 Nigerians stranded in Ukraine arrived aboard Max Air flight 747 at 7:10 a.m., on Friday through Romania. The second batch came aboard Air Peace Boeing 777-300 flight (APK7534) and arrived in Abuja with 183 passengers including kids through Warsaw. Nigerian students, who just got evacuated from Ukraine amidst the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, disembark from a chartered plane after landing at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport Abuja, Nigeria on March 4, 2022. – A first batch of 415 Nigerian students who were studying in Ukraine were flown back home on Friday, according to an AFP reporter at the airport in the capital Abuja. (Photo by Kola SULAIMON / AFP)  Report says that many Nigerians and other nationals have fled Ukraine into neighbouring countries since Russia launched its full-scale invasion on its neighbour on Feb. 24. The Federal Government approved the release of 8.5 million dollars on Wednesday for the immediate evacuation of at least 5,000 Nigerians fleeing the Russian-Ukrainian conflict zone to Poland, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia. Nigerian students, who just got evacuated from Ukraine amidst the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, disembark from a chartered plane after landing at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport Abuja, Nigeria on March 4, 2022. A first batch of 415 Nigerian students who were studying in Ukraine were flown back home on Friday, according to an AFP reporter at the airport in the capital Abuja.<br />Kola SULAIMON / AFP  The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) has been at the forefront of the evacuation. A Nigerian student, who just got evacuated from Ukraine amidst the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, reacts after landing at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport Abuja, Nigeria on March 4, 2022. – A first batch of 415 Nigerian students who were studying in Ukraine were flown back home on Friday, according to an AFP reporter at the airport in the capital Abuja. (Photo by Kola SULAIMON / AFP) Nigerian students, who just got evacuated from Ukraine amidst the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, prepare to leave the airport tarmac after landing at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport Abuja, Nigeria on March 4, 2022. – A first batch of 415 Nigerian students who were studying in Ukraine were flown back home on Friday, according to an AFP reporter at the airport in the capital Abuja. (Photo by Kola SULAIMON / AFP)