 Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park Photo SANDALS Resort Ever wondered what sculptures look like underwater? The Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park has the answers to any questions you might have.   The National Geographic society records that more than 80% of the world’s oceans is yet to be mapped, explored or seen by humans. In these waters exist different animals, plants some of which are unknown to mankind, but in the parts known to man, there exists the first-ever underwater park. Designed by British sculptor Jason deCaires Taylor, the Molinere Bay Underwater Sculpture Park is the first of its kind. Listed as one of National Geographic’s 25 Wonders of the World, the 800 square meters park features a collection of ecological underwater contemporary art. Opened for public viewing in May 2006, Taylor created this park to engage local people with the underwater environment around them. Located in the Caribbean sea off the Grenada West Coast, the Grenada Underwater Park, as it is fondly referred to, features 75 sculptures made of concrete and steel, materials which promote the growth of corals and marine life. Taylor used a long-lasting cement to create a stable, permanent platform textured to allow coral polyps to attach themselves to the sculptures. And since their installation, these man-made reefs have attracted several marine life. Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park Photo Pinterest These concrete figures largely include human forms, from solitary individuals to a ring of children holding hands. Since their installation, the sculptures, which were initially grey, have changed colours to pink, green and even back, a change which can be attributed to the environment. In this one of its kind sculpture park, art and nature collide, creating an eerie yet beautiful sight. Some of the sculptures lay just six feet beneath the surface, while others are much further down. Despite the reduced possibility that these sculptures might float away as they are estimated to weigh about 15 tons, the individual sculptures are bolted to the seafloor. Access to this wonder park is restricted to scuba diving, snorkelling, glass-bottom boats. Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park Photo The Amazing World Famous Pieces The most famous piece in the Grenada Underwater Sculpture Park is Vicissitudes. This iconic art piece installed in 2007 at 14 feet features a group of 26 children holding hands facing the strong ocean current. While Taylor’s true intent behind this piece remains unknown, the cast of children from diverse backgrounds remains a significance of unity and resilience. Another famous piece in the underwater sculpture park is Christ of the Deep. An underwater replica of the original sculpture found in St. George’s Harbor. Worthy of mention is the Grace Reef installed at a depth of 12 feet in 2008. This reef includes 16 statues cast from a laying sculpture of a local Grenadian woman.