 Medlin Boss Photo Felix Crown Nothing says that you’re all about your business like a pantsuit. What better way to show up to work or meet that business client than in a well-tailored pantsuit? You tell me. Here are a few ways to up your pantsuit game and stay far from boring. Do you want to seem laid-back and relaxed during this meeting? Style your pantsuit with a plain tee, sneakers and sunglasses. Make sure to colour grade your outfit; your blazer and pants should be of the same colour and shade, while your sneakers and plain tee should match. This look is perfect for a balanced, refreshing and casual countenance. This option is best for a casual dinner with your friends from work. If you aren’t sure how to switch it up from regular work clothes but don’t want to look too simple either, style your pantsuit with a crop top instead of a shirt, and crop your pants to accentuate your feet. Sum it up with some fancy heels, and you’re no longer just the girl from work. While you’re getting into it, turn your sleeves into a half sleeve and slap some jewellery on your wrist. Pantsuits are practical and professional, but who says they can’t be flirtatious? To sizzle up your pantsuit, combine it with a contrasting bralette or no top at all. This outfit works well for humid weather also. A lacy bralette under your blazer draws just the right amount of attention, plus they’re comfortable! Work clothes need not be monochrome! However, if you like to stick to the regular blacks and greys and blues, add some life to your wardrobe by playing the patterns. A range of designs livens up every outfit, from checks to plaids to polka dots and stripes. Maybe its too late for you, and you’ve already bought some plain pantsuits. There’s a way out; accessories. I know you’re thinking, how practical is it to wear bangles and rings to work? Don’t narrow down your options so soon. Start with a scarf. A contrasting scarf around your neck or looped across your blazer effortlessly brightens up the entire fit. If the forecast says it’ll be a cold day, dress for the weather by wearing a turtleneck inside your pantsuit. Your pantsuit and turtleneck should come from opposite ends of the colour spectrum. See stylish ways to rock a pant suit