• Raze Ohanaeze Ndigbo President’s Country Home, Attack Police Station
• Uzodimma Blames Desperate Politicians For Mayhem Unknown gunmen, yesterday, invaded and razed the country home of the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor, in Awomama, Oru East Local Council of Imo State. According to sources, the hoodlums came in a convoy when people were asleep, and threw in an explosive, which blew off the entire roof and destroyed many rooms upstairs. It was revealed that Obiozor was not at home when his house was attacked. Meanwhile, the Imo State Government has condemned the attack on Obiozor’s home by those it described as “political bandits.” In a statement personally signed by Governor Hope Uzodimma, he regretted that desperate politicians, who believe in violence, were yet to sheathe their swords, in spite of repeated appeal to that effect. He described the attack “as cowardly and the height of desperation.” He said the government was already working with security agencies to identify and punish the perpetrators. He bemoaned incessant resort to violence in settling political differences by some politicians, and warned the government would no longer condone such lawlessness. “The time of those, who unleash this kind of mayhem in the state is over. We shall haunt them down to face the full weight of the law,” he said. The governor wondered why bandits should attack the home of a man, who is not a politician, but a statesman working for the good of the entire Igbo race, adding that it was shameful that both sponsors and perpetrators of the violence deployed their malicious attack on an innocent man. He assured Imo people that government would continue to do all within its constitutional power to protect lives and property in the state. The Imo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Rabiu Hussaini, had visited the scene. In a related development, gunmen also attacked the Police Divisional Headquarters in Umuguma, Owerri West Local Council. Residents said a police officer and two young men were feared dead but the state Police spokesperson, Michael Abattam, said no police officer was killed. Abattam confirmed the two incidences, saying: “Residents said a police officer was killed. But, I told them no police officer died. We are visiting some areas…” On Obiozor’s home, he said: “The CP has visited the place. He has detailed the officer in-charge of the Violent Crimes Investigations Division (VCID) to commence investigation. No body has been arrested. The burning of the house took place about 02.45a.m. No arrest, so far.” Speaking on torching of Ohanaeze chieftain’s home, a commentator, Jude Opara Shapume, said: “The urning of Obiozor’s house is a joke taken too far by fifth columnists imported to destroy Igboland. No sane Igbo group would ever think or envisage on burning the most respected Igboman’s mansion….” It will be a total madness. That means, that person or group of persons, may not be of Igbo origin. “It is not in our culture to desecrate our temple, especially someone leading our tribe’s highest socio- political group, Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo. He warned those responsible for such acts to resist, saying: “If you have a hand in these crimes ravaging our beloved Alaigbo, kindly ask for forgiveness. At last, we will know the culprits. It is a matter of time.” As at the time of filing this report, there was no official statement by the state. 