• Caverton are Chief of Naval Cup kings As predicted by pundits, three of the home teams swept the stakes on the final day of the Lagos International International Polo Tournament on Sunday. The three teams, STL, Elektron Aragorn and Caverton were imperial as they dominated their battles to win the four titles at stake.
 STL started the song when they defeated Lagos Caverton 10-6 in a double decker to emerge winners of the Low Cup and the Governor’s Cup respectively. STL parading Omoregie Osagie, Ibrahim Dantata, Ahdulrahaman Mohammed and their patron, Seyi Tinubu, jumped to the front from the starting bell and held on for a comfortable victory despite late rally from their local rivals. The Silver Cup final between Lagos Elektron and the debuting Nigerian Navy was another big highlight of the month-long tournament with the Lagosians needing a golden goal to secure victory. The brave Naval Sailors, who shot down Ibadan Durante Food in the semifinal, scored a late 6-6 equaliser in the final chukka of the tensed Silver Cup final to force a sudden death, were on high, before Abdulrahaman Mohammed’s golden goal helped Elektron to escape with the glittering prize. Before the nerve wrecking Silver Cup final, the quartet of Bode Makanjuela, Rotimi Makanjuela, Muyiwa Oni and Diego White were the toss of the  crowd as they rolled over BobTrack Tractor team from Port Harcourt 7-2, to become the first ever champions of the Chief of Naval Staff Cup. An overflowing dignitary gallery, led by Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, was thrilled with high class polo as Argentina’s Diego White opening up a four-goal lead for Caverton in the early stages, before Bode Rotimi and Muyiwa completed the carnage for a sweet victory. “That final match was quite intensive, our Port Harcourt opponents pushed us all the way, but we wanted the cup more and our determination paid off with a deserving victory,” Rotimi Makanjuela declared shortly after receiving the Chief of Naval Cup at a colourful presentation ceremony. Lagos Polo Club President, Ayo Olashoju, who described the tournament as one of the most successful in years, declared that the campaign for Majekodunmi Cup, Open Cup, Low Cup and Silver Cup  prizes, were the most competitive and the most exciting in years. Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola promised that next year would get better as it has always been over the years adding that “The 2022 tournament  was a three weeks of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game both on and off the pitch.” The Naval Chief congratulated both the winners and the runners-up for their display of skills and the spirit of sportsmanship throughout the international polo fiesta and pledged the commitment of the Nigerian Navy to the Lagos polo tournament. He later led other dignitaries to give out awards and prizes to winners at a colourful closing ceremony that brought down the curtain on the glamorous 2022 Lagos polo extravaganza.