A consultant pathologist at Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Dr. Waheed Akanni Oluogun, yesterday, told a coroner inquest investigating the killing of a police corporal, Rauf Fawale, by an operative of the Department of State Security (DSS), David Olowoporoku and two others that Fawale died of massive cerebral bleeding due to a severe head injury.
   
The coroner, headed by Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara, had at the last sitting summoned the manager of Riverside Lounge & Bar, Osogbo, where Fawale was allegedly beaten to coma on January 14, 2021, Medical Director (MD) of Morning Star Hospital, Alekuwodo, Osogbo, MD of Anu Olu Private Hospital, Ilobu, MD of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, MD of Esho Spine and Brain Hospital, Oke-Fia.
     
It further extended summons to Investigative Police Officer (IPO) in the case, Modinat Badmus, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Dada Estate, Adisa Badmus, David Olowoporoku and two others to appear and explain what they know about the circumstances leading to Fawale’s death.  “There was some massive cerebral hemorrhage or bleeding to the brain. This massive bleeding led to his death. Other internal organs are normal. There was no natural disease in the body to cause or accelerate death. My Lord, I certified the cause of death to be massive cerebral hemorrhage secondary to severe head injury due to severe trauma.”	 
   
Also giving testimony, MD of Anu Olu Private Hospital, Dr. Shedrack Ojo, explained how Fawale was brought to his hospital in a semi-conscious state on January 16, 2021 at about 12:30p.m. 
 
“While getting his (Fawale) history, I was told by Fawale Musefiu, his relative, that he (deceased) had been involved in a fight on January 14, two days to that time. “He was said to have been taken to LAUTECH Teaching Hospital (now UNIOSUN Campus Teaching Hospital), where an X-ray was done. I was told that the fight was between him and another law enforcement agent (DSS) and we requested for the x-ray and we were told it was in the teaching hospital. 