Head coach of Rwanda’s women’s national cricket team, Leonard Nhamburo, has announced a 14-woman squad for the forthcoming NCF Women’s T20 International Tournament billed to hold from March 26 to April 4 in Lagos, Nigeria. The tournament will attract five countries, including Sierra Leone, Ghana, Cameroun, Rwanda and hosts, Nigeria. All the matches will hold at Tafawa Balewa Square Cricket Oval, Lagos. The team started training on March 20 at Gahanga International Cricket Stadium and will depart for Lagos a day before the tournament. This is the first women’s competition Rwanda will participate in this year. The team last competed in the T2O Women’s World Cup qualifiers held in Gaborone, Botswana, last September. In the squad are Sarah Uwera, Gisele Ishimwe, Cathia Uwamahoro, Diane Bimenyimana, Henriette Ishimwe, Alice Ikuzwe, Sifa Ingabire, Margueritte Vumiliya, Belyse Murekatete, Immaculee Muhawenimana, Josiane Nyirankundineza, Flora Irakoze, Antoinette Uwimbabazi and Merveille Uwase. Another participating nation in the event, Ghana, has also released a 16-man squad for the tournament with the players drawn mainly from the four teams that participated at the recent Ashanti Women’s T20 league. The squad has five players from Tutuka Queens, four from Pomposo Royals, four from Royal Batters, and three from White Hawks. The Team will be led by Manager, Mariam Ibrahim, Head Coach Obed Harvey, with support from Williams Kanchoba. The squad, which will be trimmed to a final 14, has Rhyda Amanfo Ofori (Pomposo Royals), Fati Bawa (Tutuka Queens), Rozabel Asumadu (Tutuka Queens), Ivy Kyerewaa Yeboah (Pomposo Royals), and Janet Alaare (Pomposo Royals). Others are Kate Awauh (White Hawks), Elizabeth Annor (Royal Batters), Emmanuella Nyaaba (Royal Batters), Felicia Serwaa (Pomposo Royals), and Emma Abdulai (Tutuka Queens). The rest are Ellen Otu Asante (White Hawks), Grace Adiabey (White Hawks), Rashidatu Salia (Royal Batters), Beatrice Oduro (Tutuka Queens), Miriam Eshun (Tutuka Queens), and Cynthia Ankobea Konadu (Royal Batters). The GCA has invited all the players to one-week residential camping at GIMPA from Saturday, March 19, and train at the Achimota Cricket Oval, till they depart to Lagos on Saturday, March 26.
 They are expected to enhance their preparations following the senior’s T20 league, which ended on March 13.