Urges members to be wary of antics of opposition parties OSUN State Governor Gboyega Oyetola has urged the electorate to be wary of the antics of the opposition parties that were out to distract them ahead of the governorship election in the state. Oyetola stated this during an engagement programme organised by the state’s Civic Engagement Centre for Osun State Conference of Artists, Designers, House and Spraying Painters yesterday in Osogbo. The governor, represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, also urged members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as well as the electorate, to remain focused on the task of his re-election bid. Oyetola, who noted that the APC is still intact and indivisible in Osun State, urged them not to be agitated, but to remain resolute, unflinching and committed to the task ahead. The governor urged party members to continue to educate the populace on the need for stability, sustainability and continuity of his people-oriented style of governance. He said: “As the election is approaching, we task all members at all levels to employ door-to-door strategy to remind the electorate why the administration should be given a second chance to complete its developmental agenda for the state. “Osun APC is strong and indivisible. I want to appeal to party members, as well as the electorate, not to be deceived or distracted by the lies and deceit made by opposition parties. “You have seen and witnessed a lot of positive impacts and achievements since the inception of the administration and you can be rest assured of better things to come when re-elected,” he said. Oyetola, who noted that the opposition would soon engage in a campaign of calumny with fake promises, urged the electorate to be firm in their determination to ensure continuity. He, however, commended members of the association for their support, adding that the administration would continue to provide a friendly-environment for businesses to thrive. Chairman of the association, Siyanbola Shaeeb, in his remarks, commended the governor for putting human face into governance.
Shaeeb said that members of the association would support the re-election bid of the governor. He also appreciated the governor for providing enabling environment for members of the association to do their businesses without hindrance.