It’s very hard. But you’re not allowed to complain nor talk about it. After all, you’re not the first to do this and there is nothing special about you. Multitudes of women are out there working, running homes and raising children, so just suck it up and you’ll be fine. This is a woman’s journey. Furthermore, the conversation has shifted from snapping back into a pre-baby body – that’s a given. There is a new race to prove who can get back to pre-baby life the fastest, so let’s add being a bubbly social butterfly to the woman’s to-do list as well.
 
I have always been passionate about women-centric issues, but marriage and motherhood have definitely sent me into radicalism about feminism. My background is liberal – my mother enjoyed a flourishing career with Barclay’s Bank and then with UNICEF, before choosing to be a housewife while my dad went into diplomatic service. I often feel those stay-at-home years challenged her identity so much that it drove them to a divorce a few years later, and shortly after it was finalised, she was straight back to being at the top of her game as a government Minister. I am a firsthand witness of what happens to women who shun tradition and make a choice to define themselves by their own standards – women like my mother who are said to run with the wolves. Initially, I was intrigued by it, but as I grow each day, I gain a deeper understanding of the cost of rejecting that conventional box of expectation that society wants women to fit into. Society has chosen what happiness looks like for a woman, with no regard for what it feels like.
 
While I was pregnant, I watched The Handmaid’s Tale. I sobbed through every single episode. This was more than hormones. This show that depicts a world where a woman’s only worth is to birth children and runs home without a shred of agency over any of her life choices presented a stripped-down reality of the world we live in. If you want to be liked, if you want to be palatable, if you want to be accepted and celebrated, then you are expected to only colour within lines and stick to the script. If you do more, you will be brought down to size; if you do less, you will be taunted for your alleged inadequacy.  Mutinhiri-Ekpenyong is a Pan-African TV host.