Download logo We are pleased to announce today a new Chevening Scholarship partnership with the Hormuud Salaam Foundation, to enable more aspiring Somali leaders to study a Master’s degree in world-class universities in the UK.  The partnership will support outstanding individuals to gain the academic skills, experience and networks, so that they can contribute to Somalia’s continued development. This partnership provides the funding for 2 additional Chevening scholars each year for the next 3 academic years, to benefit from this highly competitive, life-changing opportunity. The partnership was announced at a welcome home event for 10 of the 12 Somali Chevening scholars from 2020 to 2021, hosted by the British Ambassador to Somalia, Kate Foster. Hormuud Salaam Foundation CEO, Abdullahi Nur Osman, the Head of the British Office Hargeisa, Lizzie Walker, and Chevening alumni also attended. During the event, the returning scholars shared their experiences and plans for the future. Speaking at the event, the British Ambassador to Somalia, Kate Foster, said: “The Chevening Programme attracts the best and brightest from around the world, enabling outstanding emerging leaders to make a substantive contribution to society on their return home.” “I am particularly delighted to announce our new partnership with the Hormuud Salaam Foundation, to support more aspiring Chevening scholars to benefit from this opportunity. Through partnerships like these, future Somali leaders are better able to realise their potential and work to build a better, brighter, more prosperous future for Somalia.” CEO Hormuud Salaam Foundation, Abdullahi Nur Osman, said: “Somalia has one of the youngest populations on earth, with so much budding potential. We are proud to support some of our best and brightest, giving them the opportunity to study at one of the top institutions in the UK.” “We thank the British government and the Chevening Scholarship programme for partnering with Hormuud Salaam Foundation and the young Somalis we support. We are proud to invest in their futures and that of our country.” This partnership will support scholars to pursue Master’s degrees in the following areas at any accredited university in the UK: Marketing Management, Journalism/Mass Communication/Strategic Communications, Human Resource Management, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Data Science, Asset Management, Investment Management and Petroleum Engineering. Chevening Scholarships are the UK government’s global scholarships programme. Established in 1983, these scholarships support study at UK universities – mostly one-year Master’s degrees – for students with demonstrable potential to become future leaders, decision-makers and opinion formers. Since 2016, the Chevening Scholarship programme has enabled more than 70 talented Somalis to benefit from this educational opportunity, some of whom are now working at senior levels in government, the private sector and international organisations. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of British Embassy Mogadishu.