The Executive Secretary of Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote has commended Nigerian businesses for taking up the challenge to grow their outfits and contribute to the development of in-country capacities and capabilities. “Nigerian businesses are taking up the challenge to grow their outfits and contribute to the development of in-country capacities and capabilities”, he added. Wabote who expressed satisfaction at the commissioning of another facility of Tag Energy Limited, commended the effort of the state government for creating the enabling environment for businesses to initiate and complete their growth plans within the city rather than relocate to another city or state. Wabote said Nigerian oil and gas service companies play very crucial roles in the provision of services for the sustenance and growth of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “We currently have about 8,500 service companies registered in the NCDMB NOGIC-JQS portal, offering diverse services including Engineering, Fabrication, Procurement, Drilling services, Logistics, Exploration, and Seismic services, Installation and Commissioning, Inspection and Testing, Project Management, Finance, and Insurance, and many others as listed in the Schedule of NOGICD Act (2010). “In the year 2021 alone, 1,299 oil and gas service providers registered on our NOGIC-JQS platform in a remarkable rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic downturn. “We are here today to celebrate the achievement of one of the resilient companies offering some of these services to the industry and is slowly and steadily making its mark in the provision of top-notch services to a diverse clientele in the oil and gas industry”, he said. TAG Energy Ltd is an integrated service company offering a comprehensive range of oilfield products and services in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry. “TAG Energy has continued to streamline its services into three major areas namely; Flange Management Services, Valve Maintenance & Assembling, and Inspection, Repa, ir, and Maintenance (IRM) to provide much-needed support to its customer base, helping them to achieve optimal performance and maximize operational efficiency. “It is important to highlight that TAG Energy has not limited itself to the oil and gas industry but is also delivering a comprehensive range of services to customers in the petrochemical, power, and manufacturing industries. “I do not doubt that these are just the beginning, and we will continue to see greater strides from TAG Energy thereby contributing to our goal of achieving 70% Nigerian Content in the oil and gas industry”, Wabote added. The CEO of Tag Energy, Yemi Gbadamosi has said the launching of a new valve service centre at Port Harcourt would serve as a training centre for young Nigerians who suffer more of the negative impact of the exploration and production activities. According to him, “Our investments in this modest facility is not only to provide premium services to our clients but also to serve as a training center for young Nigerians especially those from our host communities who suffer more of the negative impact of the exploration and production activities. “Moreover, it makes good business sense to be nearer to where our products and services are required. As a socially responsible entity, We will offer paid internships to qualifying students to produce a steady stream of skilled resources for the industry, further reducing our dependence on foreigners for ongoing maintenance and support activities. “This of course will also deliver added benefits of lower costs and quicker turnarounds to our customers. Our future is bright, and we remain quite confident in the prospects and opportunities in Nigeria”, he said. Gbadamosi stressed that in the year 2025, the company would commence construction of a 3000sqft facility also in Port Harcourt for the design, production, and repair of Valves of all types and sizes.