Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard (ESV) is canvassing the support of the leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) to enable the Governor of the Central Bank (CBN) Dr Godwin Emefiele to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Members of the group in their hundreds dressed in branded t-shirts attributed President Buhari’s success to the fiscal policy of the CBN led by Emefiele. The CBN, however, has not said if he will join partisan politics to contest for president. Leader of the group Comrade Daniel Enyi explained that members of ESV were at the national convention to “celebrate the anchor borrower’s scheme of the federal government which has led to the agricultural revolution, the monetary policy that has stabilised the economy, the Forex Policy, the transformation of the automobile industry, the ease of doing business, social investment program and many more. The federal government is lifting Nigeria out of poverty. “Today, we say thank you to the Governor of the Central Bank Nigeria, Dr Godwin Emefiele for his steadfastness and patriotism in discharging his duty as the head of our apex Bank,” Enyi said. “As the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari is coming to an end, the Nation needs a very strong will and ideologically transformed personality with justifiable evidence of patriotic services like Dr Godwin Emefiele as the next President of Nigeria. “We are very happy that this party has maintained the economy of Nigeria as the best and strongest economy in Africa.” While asking APC leaders to support the group for the actualisation of Emefele’s presidency, Enyi said: “We have identified Dr Godwin Emefiele based on his sense of patriotism and commitment to duty, his genuineness in rendering service to the Nation as President Buhari’s possible successor. This is a project in which all well-meaning Nigerians should be involved. We should look for our best brains and encourage them to take positions of higher responsibilities, Emefiele is being offered such by Nigerians. “We call on the political class, the business class and the academians to prevail on Dr. Godwin Emefiele to take the mantle of leadership from our able leader, President Muhammadu Buhari as he hands over power in 2023.” 