If you’re a crypto enthusiast who’s dabbled in investing, your earliest moves were probably to invest in a well-known crypto that’s likely to grow over time. While this is a trustworthy tactic, many investors nowadays are preferring to discover new altcoins that have a real shot at exploding. That way, investors can experience the peak of the coin and decide whether they want to HODL or not afterwards. However, the crypto market is a competitive one, with around 17,000 altcoins from you to choose from. Three altcoins with a lot of potential include Waves (WAVES), Lunar (LNR) and Seesaw Protocol (SSW). Check out why they’ve been generating so much buzz in the market lately. Waves (WAVES) In the blockchain industry, development never stops, and projects that continue to evolve are the ones that stay on top and survive in the long run. Waves (WAVES), a multi-purpose blockchain protocol designed to support a variety of use cases, including decentralised applications and smart contracts, is one project attempting to stay on top of the innovation wave. It was launched in June 2016 in response to one of the crypto industry’s first presales, with the goal of improving on the first blockchain platforms’ speed, utility, and user-friendliness. To improve on its original design, the platform has undergone various changes and added new spin-off features. WAVES has rallied 120% since forming a double bottom at $8.28 on February 22nd, according to data from Cointelegraph Markets Pro and TradingView. The recent announcement that the protocol will migrate to Waves 2.0, a partnership with Allbridge that will connect Waves with other popular blockchain networks, and the upcoming launch of a $150 million fund aimed at fostering Waves’ growth in the United States are three reasons for the recent price increase seen in WAVES. Lunar (LNR) Lunar (LNR) has been gaining traction lately. At the time of drafting, the LNR token’s price had risen by over 11%, while its volume had increased by over 119%. It aims to make trading cryptos and NFTs easier by combining them into a single, interconnected platform with a seamless user experience. Its goal is to re-centralize DeFi for users while also providing a single location where they can find all of the tools they need to trade or research cryptocurrencies. Wallet aggregation, trading, price charts and information on tokens, farming, staking, and other services are all included. Currently, LNR was valued at $0.00000002635 per token, with a 24-hour volume of $1.33 million. Its fully diluted market cap is $26.35 million, with a market cap of US$20.57 million. The total supply of the token is 1 quadrillion, with a current circulating supply of 784.17 billion. LNR has given a YTD return of 134.43 percent. Seesaw Protocol (SSW) Although Seesaw Protocol (SSW) is currently in its second presale stage, it has already experienced a 810% boost in price since the start of the month, resulting in an impressive all-time increase of 2160%. Due to the nature of presales, the price can only keep soaring until its launch. The concept of Seesaw Protocol (SSW) has been so attractive to investors because it’s a multi-chain platform that is completely decentralised. It will first go live on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC), then the Polygon (MATIC) Network, and then the Ethereum (ETH) Network. Users of SSW will be able to perform cross-chain swaps in order to find the best price and speed for their transactions. Consider it like a standard currency exchange: the higher your currency exchange rate, the less expensive your imports will be. SSW’s main goal is to improve your cryptocurrency experience by promising a fixed low fee of 3%, better rates, and complete transparency. There are less than six weeks left in the Seesaw Presale (SSW) presale, and as previously stated, the price can only rise until April’s release. Find out more on Seesaw (SSW) here: Enter Presale | Website | Telegram  | Twitter | Instagram