Police confirm bomb explosion, evacuate suspected IED near pub Troops of the Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) have neutralised scores of terrorists and recovered food stockpiled by for the coming Ramadan fast. In a statement, yesterday, the Chief of Military Public Information, Headquarters, MNJTF N’Djamena, Chad, Col. Muhammad Dole, said in the course of operations conducted between February 23 and 27,  2022, troops of MNJTF Sector 1 Cameroon conducted operation in Vretet-Zamga-Ngoshe triangle in the general area of Kirawa on the Nigeria–Cameroon border, where several terrorists were neutralised and others fled with gunshot wounds. According to Dole, during the operation, dangerous weapons, large quantity of materials and assorted foodstuff were recovered from the terrorists. “The items recovered include: one AK-47 rifle, one AK-47 magazine, several ammunitions of the 7.62mm special variant, 21 bicycles, one Boko Haram Terrorist (BHT) uniform, 39 bags of millet and two bags of beans. An intelligence analysis indicates that the items were being smuggled from the borders to Sambisa forest. “It is believed the terrorists are stockpiling materials for the incoming month of Ramadan. Further exploitation of the engagement areas showed traces of blood, evidence of BHT/ISWAP criminals removed bodies of their dead colleagues, while two bodies of BHTs were discovered,” he stated. ALSO, the Kaduna State Police Command, yesterday, confirmed an explosion, which devastated the Kabala West area of Kaduna South Local Council.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Muhammad Jalige, who confirmed the incident to journalists, yesterday, in Kaduna, said security operatives were investigating the blast suspected to be from an Improvised Explosive Device (IED). His words: “The explosion is suspected to be IED. There is no casualty recorded. There was no body in the building when it exploded. It happened Sunday night around 21:45p.m. “Anti-bomb squad has been deployed to the scene to analyse the particles we got from the place.” Jalige explained that details of the explosion were being investigated, promising to make the findings available to journalists as soon as it is completed. He, however, urged residents of the area to remain calm and go about their legitimate businesses. THERE was pandemonium in Kaduna metropolis, yesterday, as the police recovered another object suspected to IED planted in a popular drinking joint along Abuja highway junction by Nnamdi Azikiwe bypass. The discovery followed the explosion that rocked part of Kabala West on Sunday. When the object was sighted, several football fans were watching the match between Liverpool and Chelsea football clubs at the joint about 9:00p.m. A witness identified as Bayo told journalists that when the owner of the pub sighted the object, he moved it to a nearby auto mechanic workshop.
Disturbed by the way the object was thrown into the mechanic workshop, the security man attached to the workshop moved it farther away to the back of the workshop. But, yesterday, the owner of the pub, Larry Nuhu, called the police, who came with bomb experts and neutralised the object. “I saw the object wrapped in a black bag with a battery connected to it, the kind of battery motorcycles use. But this morning, the Kaduna State Commissioner of Police came with some of his men and removed the object,” the witness added. Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, yesterday evening, visited the scene of the incident. Aruwan, who arrived the scene in company of a Garrison Commander, advised the owner of the pub to scale up security in the area, just as he said the state government would continue to beef up security in the state.