University of Lagos (UNILAG) Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Oguntoyinbo, has appealed to the public and fans of the tertiary institutions taking part in the 26th NUGA Games to troop to the venues to watch their student/athletes compete in some of the best facilities in the country. The competition, which opened at the weekend with series of entertaining acts, including calisthenics, cultural dances and march past expertly organised by The Temple Company, has witnessed fierce contests among the schools in attendance. Speaking on the Games, Prof. Oguntoyinbo said UNILAG has raised the NUGA bar, adding, “We guarantee state-of-the-art sporting facilities and a memorable experience in Nigeria’s university of first choice and the nation’s pride. “Please go out and see places and enjoy the fresh and aquatic splendor hospitality of the most friendly and accommodating state in Nigeria.” He added that event venues, including UNILAG Indoor Sports Hall, YabaTech, Rowe Park, Yaba and Onikan Stadium have some of the best facilities in the country. To Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, “Apart from the NYSC, the other single largest connection of youths can only be found in our campuses. Also, the bundle of talents when it comes to sports can only be found in our campuses. “I’m excited that NUGA Games is back again after seven years in the doldrums. I hear some participants would be selected to participate at the World University Games in June. For us, we hope that some of the athletes that will represent Nigeria in July at the Commonwealth Games would emerge from NUGA 2022. “So, I want to thank UNILAG for giving us back our NUGA. In the last few weeks, I have seen sports and its power. I have seen the marriage of sports and entertainment. I have seen a lot of youths empowered to make money while preparing for the NUGA games. There is no other platform bigger than sports to promote peace and unity. Welcome to NUGA Games 2022,” he stated. The 10-day competition will feature 17 sporting activities that will end on March 26 and closing ceremony the following day. 