The two serious accusations against Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, signpost a personal tragedy to him, but of larger and unpleasant implications for the reputation of Nigeria police and the country.  Kyari was first indicted in the U.S. in a case of money laundering by one high flying, big spending Ramon ‘Hushpuppi’ Abbas and his group of transnational internet fraudsters. Lately, he was caught pants down in a National Drug Law Enforcement Agency’s (NDLEA) sting operation. 
  
He is an officer who, as head of a special anti-crime unit called Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Kyari has been dubbed ‘supercop’ for his crime-busting achievements. If the allegations prove to be true, it will be a sad story of a good man gone terribly bad, his name and efforts irretrievably tarnished, and the floundering image of the Nigeria police further smashed. For now, however, Kyari must be granted the benefit that he is innocent until proven otherwise by due legal process.
   
In the first case pending in a court in California, Kyari was suspended from duty on the written directive of the Police Service Commission (PSC) to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, on the strength of a warrant issued for his arrest by the American court. The IGP also set up a panel to investigate the allegation against Kyari and reportedly forwarded the outcome to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation for vetting and advice. Why Mr. Baba took this strange step instead of sending the report to the PSC, only the IGP can explain.  For, according to the Constitution and the Police Act 2020, the Commission has the power to dismiss and to exercise disciplinary action over officers and men of the Police Force, except the IGP.  In any case, the PSC was reportedly dissatisfied with the panel’s report and demanded a more thorough investigation given the weight of allegations against Kyari. The IGP was yet to act on this when a fresh scandal broke, involving Kyari yet again. 