Today, the situation has not changed one bit. Our universities spend millions of naira, erecting super-gates emblazoned with the Centre of Excellence, when their libraries are stocked with moldy and outdated books acquired in the colonial days. Our universities shamelessly pride themselves in being addressed as The “Harvard”, the “Cambridge” or the “Oxford” of Nigeria. What is wrong with being the Ibadan, Nsukka or Zaria of Nigeria? If there is any semblance of excellence in any activity in a Nigerian, be rest assured that the activity has foreign funding or support.
 
In a recent release by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, in its July 2017 Monthly Digest indicated that in July 2017 alone, it provided N6.1billion to 198 institutions (61 Universities, 60 Polytechnics, 76 Colleges of Education, and one Professional body). The funds were provided for physical infrastructure for teaching and learning, research activities, academic staff training and development, conference attendance and other interventions. If we are to match the funds disbursed with performance, current state, and the reported depth of misuse of funds going on in our tertiary institutions, even as our VCs compete with seasoned politicians in entering EFCC net, we may be contributing to transforming the TETFund into Nigeria’s TETFront for TETFraud! However, the current leadership of TETFUND is making serious and genuine efforts to transform Nigeria using the resources of TETFUND to lay a solid scientific and technological framework for the transformation of Nigeria.  “Electricity power supply in Nigeria is so erratic and unreliable that what we get is EPI-LECTRIC. Every establishment, (tertiary institution included), provides, at huge cost, its own electricity for running operations. One of the universities, a small private university with a student population of 5000, spends over 12 million naira monthly, purchasing diesel to power generators supplying electricity to the academic areas for 12-14 hours a day.
 
From the foregoing, it is obvious that all of us have contributed to making Nigeria a scientifically stunted and technologically backward nation.  The misplaced priority of government, the protective self-interest of the elite and university men and women, and the indifferent ignorance of the general society are the ingredients of the conspiracy that have led to the under-development of Nigeria.
 
The Nigerian university needs to do at least four things to bring Nigeria back from the brink of technological disaster. First, the Nigerian university must identify with and be seen by society as part of the society. Second, the university must be asking the right questions relating to the problems of our society. Third, the university needs to focus research activities on the directions of questions we have asked. Finally, the Nigerian university in collaboration with the government must seek relevance in serving and meeting the identified needs of the society.
 
What is the way forward for the society-government and industry? I will divide this into two groups: the government and industry and the society at large. In spite of government declared intentions, the Nigerian government has a lackadaisical attitude, a laissez-faire approach, and disinterested excitement about university education, excited only in setting up universities like pure water factories. It is difficult to believe, going by the history of government support for universities in Nigeria, that few people in the governance of Nigeria see any significant role for universities in the transformation of Nigerian society.  We expect our governments to stop paying lip service to the development of the university system in Nigeria. We look forward to a government that will see the university as an instrument for improving each aspect of our daily living.  