Founder and Chancellor of Gregory University Uturu (GUU) in Abia State, Prof. Gregory Ibe, at the weekend, commenced consultation with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in Abia Central Senatorial zone on his aspiration to contest the 2023 governorship election. Ibe, an acclaimed investor and employer of skilled and unskilled labour in Abia State restated the importance of doing the needful to drastically reduce high unemployment level and engender investments especially in agriculture as a panacea for challenges in the state and national levels. He consulted with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu at his (Ikpeazu’s) Umuobiakwa country home in Obingwa Council, during which the governor welcomed his aspiration, describing him as one of the illustrious sons of Abia, worthy and capable of governing the state. Ibe, who hails from Abia North Senatorial District, was prevailed upon by PDP Elders in 2014 to defer his aspiration to 2023 to allow Ikpeazu to complete his second term for Abia South Zone and thus pave the way for Abia North for the second round of rotation of the governorship from 2023 in line with the state charter on power rotation, as enunciated by the founders of the state. During his visits to Abia Central Zone, Ibe consulted with his PDP chieftains including Batthy Ukaugo, a political leader in Ohuhu clan of Umuahia North Council, Rev. Benson Ezem, former State PDP Chairman of Umuahia South Council and John Erendu, a former Sports Commissioner from Isiala Ngwa South Council. He also consulted with Uche Akwukwuegbu, the Traditional Prime Minister of Ibeku. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chris Ezem, former Sports Commissioner, Emeka Inyama and Ebisike Okengwu, among others. The all supported Ibe’s quest for the governorship position and prayed that God gives the state a governor like Ibe, who they commended for his investments and employment opportunities for Abia people, saying: “We have seen the evidence that you will nurture and govern the state the way you have successfully done in your investments.” 