 Fisherman’s soup. Photo Dooney’s Kitchen Nigeria is a country rich in lots of interesting elements that adds to the colourful nature of the people. Food in Nigeria is a jamboree with assorted foods from different communities that draws individuals to their way of life and culture. One type of food that resonates with many Nigerians are popular street foods. These street foods range from one location to another. This takes our food journey to the streets of the coastal city of Port Harcourt. The city of Port Harcourt located in the Southern part of Nigeria is the fifth-largest in the country. Significantly part of the defining facts of the people is that they are sited by the river. As such, Port Harcourt is the hub of boat building and fishing industries plus fish-freezing facilities. Are you new to the coastal city of Port Harcourt? Here are some street foods and some of the best local cuisines to try out and bring you close to the people of Port Harcourt when next you visit Nigeria. Bole and Fish Bole is one street food that many Nigerians can identify with, but this yummy street food is upgraded in the city of Port Harcourt. Bole is paired here with fish, given that they are by the coast. Provided with lots of options, bole and fish is available in many street corners with different price ranges from one seller to another, particularly in Woji. It comprises roasted plantain, that is either very ripe, medium ripe or unripe. Accompanying the bole is mackerel fish with a sauce that is made with palm oil with ugba, nicely diced onions, fresh pepper and some freshly chopped utazi greens. Native Soup This special soup will leave you wanting more of Portharcourt. Known as native soup to the natives, while to those having the time of their lives with the foods of this region, it is called fisherman soup. The name fisherman soup tells it all as this soup offers a packed up variant of the sea all spiced up in your plate leaving no room. It is made up of prawns, shrimps, crabs, antelopes, periwinkle, cow tongue, stock fish, kpomo and meat with the juices married to create that memorable experience. The thickener used for this soup is ofo and the fisherman soup can be eaten with the morsel of your choice, or better still can be eaten without it. Onunu This delicacy is particular to the coastal people of Rivers. Onunu is made from a combination of boiled yam and plantain that is then pounded together and added is the palm oil that gives onunu the orange inviting appeal. Fitted with this pounded morsel is a delicately peppered fish.  