My turn of mind should have been clear to all my readers by now. Those who were too blind to the extent that they did not have eyes to see the plight of our lecturers and professors have been given eyes here to see that our public universities have all along been contaminated and adulterated institutions. They are far more contaminated and far more adulterated than imported bad petrol that has grounded many of our vehicles and damaged our generators and other utensils of domestic utility. Indeed, the imported adulterated petrol is not in any way as harmful as the pauperised, contaminated and adulterated remunerations of our varsity lecturers and professors. Our public universities are essentially places for cripples because the pauperised, contaminated and adulterated remunerations of our egg-heads over the years have turned them into cripples. Their remunerations cannot buy them peanuts in any ordinary market and thus they will not dare to go to a supermarket to attempt to buy the nourishing edible seeds.  Behold, nourishing peanuts! Our professors’ contaminated and adulterated remunerations have crippled them and turned them away from you in the ordinary market and supermarket, which are harmful places of vices according to the gospel of their contaminated and adulterated purses and bags.  The crippling, oppressive dream that they have dreamed and are still dreaming about their oppressive remunerations since 2009 must be awoken from now for good. And the federal government and our students and all stakeholders must also awake from their own contaminated and adulterated dreams and come to our lecturers and professors on their patriotic bright flame of sparkling bonfires. Our dons must end their weariness and are determined to do so. The current reality says so impressively. Our dons are returning home from the strange land of contamination and adulteration to re-examine the nature of education in our universities.
 
New sadness entered me in a most terrifying manner when I read a statement a top-ranking official of the Federal Ministry of Education tendered this past Monday in one of our newspapers. The official was reported to have said that ASUU was forcing the government to negotiate with it at gunpoint.  In fact, ASUU was said to hold a gun which it was pointing at the head of government to compel the latter to do the Union’s bidding. When will wonders end? Propaganda of propagandas!  He detested their filth and all the grunting pigs and all vain fools in our central government’s respective Ministries of Education, Labour and Finance who were pauperizing our universities (and our rich land). He saw through all their adroit pauper-filthy hypocrisy. And they silenced him. ASUU was badly harmed. The Union was gloomily gloomy but not overwhelmed by the rotten tactic of the haters of pure learning and detesters of our universities. ASUU re-strategised and the members became more than prepared to halt any frothing fool divining his folly for our universities and how they should grow.
 
I remember one tarantula, a buoyant but giddy one, in Dr. Jonathan’s presidency. I can still see him on television brandishing a two hundred billion naira cheque-less cheque meant for our universities. (In fact, it was a worthless piece of television propaganda paper). All our lecturers and professors needed to demonstrate and do to get the first-tranche two hundred billions of naira were not to tarry to lure themselves to classes from their then stormy strike. The Festus Iyayi blow that devastated them readied their collective spirit for the stormy wind of the future. The promises of the “tarantula-hearts,” as Nietzsche would say were never fulfilled. And Festus Iyayi and ASUU did not get the justice that was justice.  To be terminated next Friday. Afejuku can be reached via 08055213059. 