About 75 students of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) have successfully participated in a five-day training organised by Professors Without Borders (PROWIBO) to teach skills-focused courses to the undergraduates and faculties. The 15-hour programme, which started on Monday March 14 at the Faculty of Law of UNILAG, came to an end yesterday with harvest of praises. The participants, who were certificated after the training, said it was thought-provoking and enlightening. One of them, a 400 level student of Actuarial Science & Insurance, Anyigor Michael, said the training was interesting and would help the students improve upon their social interactions within their immediate community. “It’s interesting participating in the training and also learning from professors across the border. I really love the initiative as social problems within Africa were discussed.” His counterpart, a 500 level Law student, Zainab Olamide Dunmoye, said: “The PROWIBO programme was enlightening. The three subject areas were thought- provoking. I have learnt about storytelling, social entrepreneurship and innovation as well as global wealth. “I particularly like the global wealth class because I am interested in financial policies that would improve the Nigerian economy. The facilitators were also amazing and very helpful all through the programme. I intend to use all that I have learnt during this programme to improve upon myself and hopefully make Nigeria a better place.” Speaking about the event, the The Lead Team and Director of Programme at the PROWIBO, Rachel Warnick, said it was meant to hold in 2020 but COVID-19 pandemic put paid to it. “PROWIBO is a social enterprise dedicated to improving education and recruits top professionals to teach skills-focused courses to students and faculties in developing countries, offering them a dedicated, professional and inspiring learning environment that equips them for greater success,” Warnick explained. She said the training was also extended to the lecturers, who were trained on the learning and teaching techniques in 21st century, adding that PROWIBO had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the institute that would last for three years.
 She added that the PROWIBO would go to Ekiti State for the same training. Encouraging the certificated participants, the Vice Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, urged them to dream big and have vision, saying that the only time the students would maximise their opportunities is when they have vision and remain focused. “You can only maximise opportunity only when you have vision and focus on it. If there is no focus and vision, when the opportunity comes, it would fly away because you weren’t prepared for it.”
 The VC urged the participants not to compare themselves with chicken. “Chicken will always cry and chicken out, God can do anything if one thinks big and have vision. Don’t compare yourselves with other people or people’s failure. If anybody can invest and harvest in the land, you can still do the same. “UNILAG is proud to have commenced this relationship with Professors Without Borders and we are certain that it would lead to greater opportunities for both parties.” PROWIBO’s representative in Nigeria, Titus Ayodele, who is an accountant, said the students were receptive and active in the learning. “I have not seen such responses from the participants in recent times. They were eager to learn and waiting to see the outcome of the training. “The training also involved some mentorship and follow-up in which students graduating from their courses received completion certificates and career support while their progress is tracked to assess and improve PROWIBO’s impact,” he said.