The Central Bank of Nigeria has said it will sustain its involvement in the development of sports in the country. The Governor of the apex bank, Godwin Emefiele, stated this during the final of the 2022 CBN Junior Tennis Tournament held in Lagos. The CBN Governor, who was represented at the event by the Corporate Communications Director of the bank, Osita Nwanisobi, stated that the journey in the last 16 years had witnessed the discovery of an array of talented young boys and girls, some of whom have gone on to achieve great feats in the game locally and on the international scene. “When the Central Bank of Nigeria conceived the idea of sponsoring the CBN Junior Tennis Tournament in 2007, the main goals were to discover and groom teenage talents as well as nurture them.” Murewa Egbeyemi and Seun Ogunsakin retained their titles at the 16th edition of the CBN Junior Tennis Championship at the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club (LLTC), Onikan. In the Boys 10 & under category, defending champion, Egbeyemi showed exceptional determination to overcome Dubem Amasiani, who won the last ITA Junior Circuit tournament in Port Harcourt, which Egbeyemi did not attend. It was a dogfight that lasted over an hour with some points going up to 30 solid rallies. But, once Egbeyemi broke for a 4-3 lead, he consolidated and held firm to retain his title 9-5. It was a similar close and fiery contest between Nigeria’s two leading 16 & under players – Ogunsakin and Ganiyu Mubarak. Mubaral led 5 – 3 and then 6-5 before Ogunsakin, popularly called Nadal by his fans, surged through to win four straight games from an obviously tiring opponent to retain his title. The Girls’ events also recorded some upsets and interesting duels.
Jasmine Benjamin from the Apapa Club program followed through her semifinal upset of defending champion Khadijat Mohammed with a convincing 9-4 victory over second seed Success Ogunjobi from Ekiti. Ndifreke Benjamin, another player from the Apapa Club, won the Girls 12 & under beating Ndidi Osaji from the LLTC. The host club also won the Girls 10  & under through Mofi Atilola, who beat Favour Okon-James from Akwa Ibom 9-3. 