The Kaduna State Police Command has foiled the attempted kidnap of six people and recovered dangerous weapons from suspected kidnappers.
  
The Command also said it recovered three vehicles and one motorcycle. Spokesperson for the Command, Assistant Superitendent Police  (ASP) Muhammad Jalige said on March 22, the Command received a report through Divisional Police Officer Buruku that criminal armed bandits in large number had blocked some commuters at Kwanan Janruwa along Buruku –Birnin Gwari road and were shooting sporadically in their desperate move to whisk away the occupant of the vehicles.
  
Jalige said upon receipt of the information, men and logistics were quickly dispatched to the location alongside other sister security agencies where a serious gun battle ensued. “Meanwhile the security agencies were able to force the bandits to retreat and flee into the forest with injuries as a result of which the following victims were rescued unharmed, namely; (1) Abba Surajo ‘M’ (2) Falalu Isa ‘M’ (3) Aminu Saidu ‘M’ (4) Shamsudden Haruna ‘M’ (5) Hajara Ibrahim ‘F’ (6) Lubabatu Umar ‘F’ all of Buruku village in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State.
 
“The operation led to the recovery of the following vehicles at scene; a Golf 2  ash-coloured vehicle marked AR 73 MKA and a Golf 3 sedan white in colour, marked DKA 241 XA . “The victims were taken to the station, profiled and subsequently reunited with their loved ones. However, more effort is in place to checkmate bandits hibernating around the axis to guarantee the safety of road users,” Jalige said. IN a related development, the PPRO said operatives of the Command attached to Zaria Area Command, while on routine surveillance patrol within Zaria city,  intercepted a suspicious Golf sedan vehicle, black in color marked XC 383 LFA.
 
“While trying to search the said car, the occupant hurriedly took to their heels. The search resulted in the recovery of a fabricated AK47 rifle. Both the vehicle and the rifle are in police custody as the investigation is ongoing to arrest owners of the said exhibits for prosecution,” Jalige added. 