The leadership tussle within the ranks of the ruling All progressive congress (APC) took a new turn on Monday after President Muhammadu Buhari reportedly ordered the removal of interim chairman Mai Mala Buni and replaced him with Niger State Governor Sani Bello. Prime Business Sunday night reported that sources within the Presidency revealed that Buhari approved Buni’s sack and Bello’s appointment before leaving the county to London Sunday afternoon. But the APC on Monday refuted the story that the Buni led caretaker committee has been sacked on the orders of Muhammadu Buhari. “The APC is a progressive political party guided by rules. Leadership changes are not announced by ‘sources’ through name dropping in the media,” APC caretaker secretary, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe said in a statement. Akpanudoedehe urged members of the party and the general public to remain calm and support the Buni-led caretaker committee to conduct a rancor-free and credible National Convention. The interim committee, however, looked all set to continue running the affairs of the ruling party. Our correspondent gathered that the party national secretariat situated along Blantyre Road in Wuse 2 Abuja was barricaded by heavily armed security personnel which sources in the APC said is aimed at preventing break down of law and order. But hours after, the reports of Buhari, who has extended Buni’s tenure in office twice since June 2020, sacking the Yobe State governor as APC interim chair, appeared to be the reality after Bello arrived the party secretariat on Monday. It is believed that Bello’s arrived at the party secretariat to replace Buni who is away in Germany to attend to his health. Sources within the APC disclosed that Bello is billed to swear in chairmen of the 36 states chapters of the party later today is meeting behind closed doors with members of the caretaker committee before the end of the day. Meanwhile, APC’s deputy national publicity secretary Yekini Nabena has faulted Bello over the call for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting. Nabena described the call as a politically motivated move aimed at actualising his alleged Vice Presidential ambition ahead of the 2023 poll. He argued that Governor Sani Bello lacks the locus standi as he remains an ordinary member of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and not the Chairman or Secretary. 