Informal sector, driver of economic growth, says gov A Civil society group, The Osun Masterminds, yesterday accused the immediate past administration of Governor Rauf Aregbesola, of plunging the state into financial mess. It, therefore, urged the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola, to probe his predecessor’s financial actions. Executive Director of the group, Wasiu Oyedokun-Alli, made the demand while addressing journalists in Osogbo. The group, which accused Aregbesola of incurring debts for the state during his eight years tenure as governor, alleged that his government was wasteful and corrupt, hence, the need for it to be probed. HOWEVER, a socio-political group in the state, the Progressives Minded Forum, has accused the state government of sponsoring The Osun Masterminds to discredit Aregbesola. The group, in a statement signed by its Co-ordinator, Sunday Oriowo, yesterday, said: “It was discovered that the government had paid some people to disguise as pensioners and protest against the former governor of the state. Security agents were duly informed and the plan was thwarted. “Having failed in the first plan, the government activated its second plan by engaging ‘The Masterminds’, a group known for its hypocrisy, money-driven opinion and financially induced press conferences to launch attack on the minister in a desperate bid to discredit his official assignment in Osogbo.” MEANWHILE, Osun State governor has described the informal sector as a key driver of economic growth, job creation and cultural preservation of every nation. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Oyetola spoke at a meeting with members of the state’s artisan workers’ union yesterday in Osogbo. The governor, represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, said that the sector was one of the largest employers of labour in the developing world, generating income, providing important and unique skills development. He said his administration had made it a priority to see to the sector’s survival and sustainability and would continue to provide a business-friendly environment for those in the sector, as part of efforts to reposition Osun State’s economy. In his remarks, Chairman of the union, Mr. Kareem Owolabi, commended the governor for his various programmes for the masses in the state. He noted that members of the association were beneficiaries of the government’s monthly food support scheme, which had increased their output. He also said that members of the association were the first to benefit from the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) empowerment programme of the state government.