Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental and other offences says it has arrested nine persons, including a filling station owner over attacks on some of its officials on duties. Chairman of the agency, CSP Shola Jejeloye confirmed the arrest in a statement issued by the spokesman for the agency, Mr Abdulraheem Gbadeyan on Wednesday. Jejeloye said that the suspects were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly attacking some officials of Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) and Lagos State Physical Planning Permits Authority, who were on joint routine duties. According to him, the two agencies officials are monitoring and enforcing compliance on the structural stability of buildings around Ajao Estate axis of the State. Jejeloye alleged that the owner of an illegal filling station under construction in the area, (name withheld) mobilised thugs and miscreants to prevent the officials from carrying out their assignment. “The incident occurred at about 12:30 pm along Robinson Gbadu Street, Ajao Estate, where the said filling station was constructed without permit or approval by the State Government. “The officials of the State Government made frantic efforts to halt the ongoing illegal construction but were attacked by thugs and street urchins stationed around the location. “The assault which led to the damage of four official vehicles belonging to the two Agencies also inflicted serious bodily injuries on six officials including the security details attached to the team to carry out the assignment,” he alleged. The chairman also alleged that mobile phones, cameras, and personal belongings of the State officials were seized by the miscreants and the site workers during the attack. He said that distress calls from members of the public and other officials of the two agencies drew the attention of the Taskforce, who moved to the location to rescue the officials and prevent further breakdown of Law and order. “The said filling station owner and some armed thugs who were involved in the fracas tried to carry on with their unlawful act but were subdued and arrested by the Taskforce operatives for questioning,” he said. Jejeloye warned that the unlawful act and high-handedness such as assault on government officials, preventing officials from carrying out their lawful duties, and sabotage would not be tolerated. He said the incident could have been avoided if the owner of the filling station had towed the line of best practices before registering his grievances. “All injured officials of the two agencies have been taken to a clinic for first aid treatment while those with severe injuries have been taken to the Lagos State Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) for adequate medical attention,” he said. 