Imo records compliance, desert Owerri streets
Suspected enforcers of the suspended Indigenous People of Biafra’s (IPOB) sit-at-home order, yesterday, shot sporadically on residents of Enugu, killing at least two persons. They were said to have besieged the New Market in the early hours and opened fire on some passengers. The Guardian learnt that the passengers left their homes early to attend to their businesses when the enforcers started shooting the commuter bus conveying them. While some of them sustained injuries, no fewer than two others died before help could come their way, but the police said no death was recorded in the incident. A source confirmed that the gunmen struck around the Colliery Hospital area and shot some passengers, who were going out for their morning business, adding that the police intervened and brought in two victims who sustained gunshot injuries to the Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT) Medical Centre, Parkland. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Daniel Ndukwe, who confirmed the incident, insisted that no death was recorded. He said: “There was a shooting incident at Odegba, along Iva Valley Road, Enugu by yet-to-be identified armed men, which led to the injury of two persons. MEANWHILE, socio-economic activities were paralysed in Owerri, Imo State, as residents complied with the sit -at-home order. Consequently, shops, banks, civil servants, schools, major markets, especially the Ekeonunwa, Alaba and Relief markets, closed their shops, while the streets were empty, as private and commercial vehicles and passengers abandoned their activities. This followed a letter issued by the purported enforcers of the IPOB directive in which they cautioned parents against allowing their children to go to school last week, but there were skeletal activities in most schools last Monday. However, yesterday’s compliance was total as no school opened in Owerri. It was also learnt that workers disregarded Imo State Government’s directive to report in their places of work or risk sanction for absenteeism. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba had issued the directive last Monday, but a visit to most ministries and agencies on the Port Harcourt Road, Owerri, showed that most offices were empty. A resident, who spoke with The Guardian, expressed worry over the development and appealed for speedy resolution of the issues that led to the situation. 