FG defends his extradition to U.S. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), yesterday, in Abuja slammed eight-count charges bothering on trafficking in hard drugs against the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari. Kyari was charged with the criminal offences alongside four other senior police officers and two civilians in a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CR/57/2022 filed at the Federal High Court in Abuja and signed by NDLEA Director of Prosecution and Legal Services, Joseph Sunday. Those charged along with Abba Kyari are, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sunday Ubua, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Bawa James, inspectors Simon Agirigba and John Nuhu, Chibuinna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne. Among other charges, Kyari, Ubua, Bawa James, Agirigba and Nuhu, all of the Intelligence Response Team allegedly dealt in 17. 55 kilogrammes of cocaine between January 19, 2022 and January 25, 2022, an offence punishable under section 14 (b) of the NDLEA Act, CAP 30 Laws of Nigeria 2004. “That Kyari, Ubua, Bawa, Agirgba and Nuhu, all male, adult on or about January 19 and 25, 2022, at Abuja within the jurisdiction of this court dealt in 17.55 kilogrammes of cocaine without lawful authority and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 11 (c) of the NDLEA Act, Cap N30 Laws of Nigeria 2004,” count two read. BESIDES, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, said the decision to commence Kyari’s extradition process to the U.S. was reached at after thorough study and review of issues regarding the application. In a statement dated March 3, 2022 and issued by his Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, the AGF said after receiving the extradition request its review, his office processed the application and forwarded it to the relevant authorities for action. Meanwhile, the embattled crime buster has instituted a suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja, seeking his freedom from the NDLEA through a fundamental enforcement suit.