Mountain of Fire and Miracles Football Club (MFM FC) new handler, Coach Isiekwene Ikechukwu Christian, has expressed optimism that the club will not return home empty-handed, as they clash with hosts, Niger Tornadoes in today’s Match day 16 fixture of the Nigeria Football Professional League (NPFL). The Olukoya Boys, who are currently languishing at the bottom of the table, will be hoping to brighten their chances of climbing up to the mid-table as they clash with the Ikon Allah, who are 16th on the table. So far this season, MFM have won four games, drew two and lost nine, why their Northern opponent, have also won four fixtures, drew four and lost seven games with the same number of matches played. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday on today’s fixture and the secret behind the sudden turnaround, which his team has made with the Lagos based team returns to winning way, especially at their home front, Christian said mid-table finish would be enough following the team’s current stand. “One thing for the sudden revival of MFM has been hard work. When I came in I had to sit with the players and discussed with them the lapses noticed in the team, which was addressed. “The outcome of the discussion is what has translated into the encouraging results the team is coming out with in the last five games. I made bold to say the team has won two games, drew two and we lost one,” he said, adding that the team’s intention was to beat Tornadoes in order to brighten their chances of a mid-table finish. “In tomorrow’s game (today), I am sure we will not go back home without a point. My message to the fans is that they should have faith in this team. I assure them that the boys will not let them down. I am even sure we will return home with the whole three points,” he said. Responding on any plan to recruit new players in order to fortify the team so as to guarantee spot in the top-flight next season, added, “Even teams at the top ladder of the table will also buy players to secure their current position in the league because this is a normal thing during transfer period. “Definitely, we hope to also sign some players in order to fix grey areas noticed in the team. I think we need these players to guarantee us a spot in next season’s premier league,” he stated.