Nigeria’s preparation for the final Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifying matches against Ghana got a big boost, yesterday, when English team, Watford, announced that Super Eagles captain, William Troost-Ekong, has returned to full training a few weeks after injury. Watford, in their website, said the former Tottenham Hotspurs academy player has started training with the full squad ahead of the Premier League meeting with Wolverhampton Wanderers. The club said, “Troost-Ekong made his return to full training today following a minor groin problem, but tomorrow’s Molineux encounter is likely to come too soon for the Nigeria captain.” Super Eagles Media Officer, Babafemi Raji, also confirmed that the national team coaches are aware of Troost-Ekong’s situation, adding that his anticipated return is a big boost to Nigeria’s plan for the World Cup qualifier against Ghana. He said: “Super Eagles defender, William Troost-Ekong is now fit and cleared by Watford medical team after a mild injury. He resumed full training today and is now in good shape for the World Cup play-offs against Ghana this month.” It is now left for the Super Eagles’ medical team to ascertain whether Troost-Ekong will attain full match fitness before the matches slated for March 25 and 29 in Cape Coast and Abuja respectively. MEANWHILE, Ghana’s Head Coach, Otto Addo, is ready to bring former Portsmouth and AC Milan star, Sulley Muntari, back to the Black Stars ahead of crucial Qatar 2022 playoff against Nigeria. Ghanasoccer.net reported that talks are ongoing to bring the former Inter Milan and Portsmouth midfielder out of retirement to help the team secure the ticket at the expense of Nigeria. According to the report: “Muntari has been in good form for Hearts of Oak in the Ghana Premier League and their President Cup success has led to the decision of the coaching staff of the Black Stars to consider calling him. “Discussion between the Ghana FA and the coaching staff are far advanced for the Hearts of Oak playmaker to return to the Black Stars after he raised eyebrows with his performances ahead of Ghana’s World Cup playoff against Nigeria.” The 37-year-old last played for Ghana in 2014 and he was member of the team that reached the quarter final of 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. Ghana’s coaching crew, however, believes his experience and leadership qualities would be vital to the Black Stars, who will be without their captain, Andre Ayew, for the games. Coach Addo is expected to name his squad for the matches later this week. 