The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the Southern Senatorial District of Cross River State, have set a three-point agenda for governorship aspirants in the forth-coming 2023 general elections. They also decry the state’s economic status associated with huge debt burden. The stakeholders, in an eight-point communiqué, signed by Senator Bassey Ewa Henshaw; Obongawan Barbara Etim James; High Chief Archibong Omon; Dr. Joe Edet; Mr. Maurice Ekong; Mr. Mba Ukweni, (SAN) and others, charge all aspirants to “pay close attention to identified issues be-devilling the state, such as its poor economic status.” Rising from its one-day stakeholders’ summit, yesterday, in Calabar with the theme: Resetting Cross River for Recovery and Growth- with focus on the state’s economy, leadership and politics and community values and security.” They urged aspirants to look into community values and security, against the backdrop of incessant communal crises in almost all local councils as well as kidnappings, robberies and drug abuse”. The third agenda was the issue of leadership and politics; their capacity, mental preparedness for leadership and service to the state. The stakeholders reaffirmed their stance on zoning, saying: “The PDP Constitution and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) support the principles of zoning, hence, the Cross River State cannot, but do the same. In this regard, “the summit, therefore, adopts the Calabar Declaration of November 5, 2021, and calls on all participants across the state to join hands to fulfil the just and equitable quest by the Southern Senatorial District of Cross River State to return power to the Southern Senatorial District come 2023. “That the summit called on all the aspirants from the Southern Senatorial District to rally round one strong and acceptable candidate, who has acceptance across the entire state and can win the governorship for the PDP.” They further noted that whereas the Southern Senatorial District had waited for 16 years out of power and supported leaders from other zones: in the interest of peace and mutual coexistence, “it is now the turn of the Southern Senatorial District to produce the next governor of Cross River State in 2023”.