The Ogwaniocha Community in Ogbaru Council of Anambra State, yesterday, appealed to Governor Chukwuma Soludo to intervene in their crisis following alleged abduction and killing of their traditional ruler, Igwe Oliver Nnaji. Son of the monarch, Prince Nnaji Reginald, lamented what he described as  ‘perverted justice’ in the trial of the suspected abductors and killers of the 71-year old monarch. Reginald Nnaji, who bemoaned the manner in which previous cases involving the suspects were handled by the High Court in the area, expressed worry over a repeat of that experience in his father’s case. He appealed to the governor to prevail on the state Chief Judge (CJ) to transfer all case files concerning the alleged murder to another judge in Awka, the state capital. Speaking on behalf of the community after a protest march at the Government House, Awka yesterday, Personal Adviser to the monarch, Chukwujioha Franklin, warned that the community might be compelled to occupy the gate of the Government House if their petition did not receive urgent and positive response. He recalled that the protest was the third at the Government House, alleging that the use of judicial powers by the judge in granting bail to suspects of murder, kidnapping and arm robbery cases was the reason the traditional ruler was kidnapped and murdered. “We fear that justice will be compromised if the alleged killers of Igwe should be tried in the same court and it will be a dangerous attempt to subject the lives of those who want justice to be served in the matter to unnecessary risk. “We request that the case be transferred from Justice Emeka Okuma court to a neutral judge in Awka.” Also speaking, President General of the community, Chidi Eze, said the same gang stormed the community, yesterday, threatening the policemen who provide security for the residents. “Most of us are homeless because many buildings in the community have been set ablaze. Some of us have been killed and thrown into the river. I doubt if we are still part of Anambra State,” he lamented. Chief of Staff (COS) to the governor, Ernest Ezeajughi, who received the protesters, commended them for their peaceful conduct and promised that justice would be done in the matter, adding that the government had heard their complaints, which were legitimate. “I assure you that with Soludo as governor, you will get solution to your problems,” he said.