Cleric’s humility not altered by his many achievements, says VP Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday, paid a glowing tribute to the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who clocked 80. In a tribute he personally signed on behalf of himself and his wife, Osinbajo described Adeboye’s lifestyle as a unique lesson for all and sundry, exhibiting humility, integrity and exemplary behaviour despite his huge achievements. He said the leader of the RCCG (a church with representation in over 198 countries and territories around the world) has impacted many lives and overseen unprecedented growth of the church, yet these achievements have not affected his behaviour. Osinbajo said: “Dolapo and I are honoured to write this tribute to Daddy on his 80th Birthday. “He is neither the Pope nor the leader of the free world, but he heads a denomination that, since his assumption of office as its General Overseer, has established churches in over 198 countries and territories of the world.” SIMILARLY, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, congratulating Adeboye on the occasion of his 80 years birthday, described the renowned cleric and global preacher as an epitome of honesty, dedication and service, whose unblemished records of work in God’s kingdom over the decades had made him a role model. ALSO, Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, described Adeboye as a distinguished man of God who has contributed immensely to the growth of Christendom. EKITI State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, said the occasion calls for celebration, considering the value of the calling and ministry of Pastor Adeboye as a chosen vessel of God to Nigeria and all nations of the world. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, said the eminent cleric had enjoyed God’s extraordinary grace in entering the club of octogenarians in good health and excellent spirit. He described Adeboye as a role model to many and a man who exudes transparent humility in line with the teachings of Jesus Christ whom he imitates.