A new token, to celebrate and appreciate one of the great entrepreneurial innovators of the 21st century —Elon Musk has been launched. This is called Elon Goat Token ($EGT) and the creators are building a giant half-Elon Musk, half-goat statue to promote the token. Elon Goat Token is built from the small tax that its buyers are paying on each transaction. The plan is to tour the monument around the country and ask Musk to take ownership of it. Powered by a guaranteed underlying virality factor, alongside an immensely experienced team and world-famous designers, Elon GOAT Token ($EGT) is building a biblical-sized monument on the back of a semi-trailer dedicated to the ‘Godfather of Crypto’. When the Elon GOAT is completed, it would be towed to Tesla Inc., and presented to Musk to recognize his contribution to the current disruptive financial technology known as Blockchain and cryptocurrency. According to the team behind the project, the Elon GOAT Monument will serve as an anchor to the token and as a tribute to the world crypto community. Though the developers of Elon Goat Token are chiefly anonymous, one of the men behind this project is a United States-based self-described expert in construction and marketing —Ashley Sansalone. He believes in the idea that Musk is a crypto legend and he essentially moves the markets and crypto. So to gain his attention is a huge deal and that is what the team aims to do. Designer Wang, a huge Musk supporter, is also involved in the project and has already taken a $20,000 fee to start the work. Metal artist Kevin has also posted a small trailer about this dream-like project. The Goat is structured to sit on a SpaceX rocket thrusting past earth while the moon is towards Mars just like Elon’s vision. The goat is made to be surrounded by lightning which implies Tesla’s solar electricity and electric cars. Soon, the styrofoam head is expected to arrive and after that aluminum, the head will be created using the foam as a template. The creators of the cryptocurrency want it to make it memorable and save time just like it has been done in history, statues have been built to capture iconic moments. The creators of $EGT want to celebrate the existence of the most innovative man of the 21st century and this is the approach to do so. Elon Goat Token statue’s construction will be available to watch in real-time as it is being put together in Arizona, USA. The statue costs around $500,000 and will be completed in under four months. The Elon Goat Token ($EGT) has a 10,000,000,000 total market supply with 6,700,000,000 in circulation according to data from CoinMarketCap. $EGT is a BEP-20 Token and it is available for trading on Pancakeswap with more product releases to come which will see the token accessible on other chain(s). When the project is completed, the project will not end there. The Elon Goat team has planned out other features and updates to come according to a recent AMA. These updates include creating a bridge to ethereum blockchain which will enable ETH community access, and buy the EGT token. The team is also planning on releasing a PlayToWin blockchain based game. These are some of the updates which are further expected to fundamentally drive the Elon Goat projects. And again, as with meme tokens with a great community, a tweet or comment by Elon Musk could cause a dramatic upward market price action. Website: https://elongoat.io Socials: Telegram: https://t.me/elon_goat_token Twitter: https://twitter.com/ElonGoatToken YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ4KZ2g8-hKeRi5N7EtCSnw Instagram: https://instagram.com/elongoatoken?utm_medium=copy_link Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ElonGoat.io 