Seplat Energy Plc, alongside its partners, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), has awarded certificates to 220 educational professionals comprising 214 teachers and six Chief Inspectors of Education in Edo and Delta states under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP). This is the second edition of the programme, which is aimed at improving the standard of education in Nigeria, particularly in Seplat Energy’s host states and communities. Over the years, Seplat Energy had made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country. To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, the company introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers. STEP is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics). The company introduced the STEAM model of learning to secondary schools in Delta and Edo state, to promote creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement, and offer a well-rounded education. In September 2021, the 220 certificate awardees from Delta and Edo States began their training with an initial five-day residential retreat. After that, they continued training via the E-Learning platform developed for the programme. To commemorate the certificate presentation ceremony held on March 17, Seplat Energy hosted The Seplat JV Education Roundtable themed: Harnessing the Role of Technology in Nigeria’s Education Sector, which took place in Benin City, Edo State. The keynote speaker, Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, an independent non-executive director at Seplat Energy, said: “Education is a collective responsibility.” What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. “It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us more future returns than subsiding consumption. “Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part of that cost. “The Government has a role to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders. We should acknowledge this cost and invest in it.” According to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.” In her remarks, Director, External Affairs and Sustainability, Seplat Energy, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, said: “The STEP programme is important because it plays a key role in the socio-economic growth of the country. “It supports the attainment of Quality education which is #SGD4. The objective is to take STEAM education to the teachers. We encourage the teachers to transmit their experience with this programme to other colleagues in the sector and the students who are Nigeria’s future. “Seplat Energy takes the STEP initiative seriously. This year we have trained over 200 teachers and state CIEs. The programme is designed to ensure monitoring and evaluation of the teachers even after the training and graduation. This ensures sustainability of the programme,” Also commenting, the Edo State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Oviawe, said: “We are excited by what Seplat Energy is doing for teachers and thank the company for its CSR impact in the educational sector and other sectors. Edo State is taking the lead in technology intervention in education in Nigeria with initiatives like this and The EdoBEST programme.”