The political engineering that produced Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) for the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) did not follow a specific design. It was a product of emergency: A manmade accident, following the enforced collapse of the previous structure.
   
On June 25, 2020, when the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC was sacked by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party, the action was not only unforeseen but some stakeholders also deemed it novel. Oshiomhole was all over the place as if he was a sole administrator. He was making pronouncements that should ordinarily be the outcome of NWC or NEC meetings. One of the not-so salutary decisions taken by the former national chairman was on the issue of enforcement of party supremacy. That approach came to the limelight during the build-up to the Osun State governorship poll, when the then chairman shunned protestations from well-meaning stakeholders, like the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yussuf Lasun, to railroad the party through a direct governorship primary election.
   
Lasun and others had picked holes in the direct methodology arguing that the absence of an authentic and credible membership register made the approach very dubious as it would, apart from disenfranchising members, provide avenues for fraud.
  
The shortcomings and insincerity of Oshiomhole’s direct primary option were later to become very noticeable when the then chairman favoured some state governors in his good books with the indirect method only to insist on the direct primary for those he did not quite approve.  Emergency Rule
CONTRARY to the expectations of the NEC, which dissolved the Oshiomhole-led NWC, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), which is founded, could not provide ready answers to the multifarious challenges confronting the governing party.
  
Instead of serving as crisis managers, CECPC under Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State ended up throwing up new challenges. Three months after it was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, the Buni-led CECPC sought an extension of time, citing the need to successfully prosecute the Edo and Ondo States’ governorship polls.
    
One year after, the CECPC still sought further time to round off the membership revalidation and registration exercise it began, stressing that it was a necessary crucial step towards returning the party to the members through direct primaries.  Towards A Better Future
HAVING therefore come through the twists and turns of managing a governing party, the challenge before the new set of NWC members is to chart a new path for the APC. There are many pitfalls the new helmsmen should avoid in order not to repeat the mistakes of Oshiomhole-NWC and Buni’s CECPC. 