 Victoria Essien, aka, Viclinlove It is safe to conclude that Victoria Essien, popularly referred to as Viclinlove by her admirers, friends and customers, was born to become the new Givanni Maria “Gianni” Versace and a badass forensic entomologist. Viclinlove has demonstrated nothing but passion, which has played a key role in her success journey both as a scientist and fashion industry creative. The Nigerian is an epitome of boldness and has thrived in a liberal society as the United States, where she graduated at the American Intercontinental University in Houston, Texas, with a GPA of 3.82. Viclinlove has handled at least 85 cases, collecting body fluids, responding to crime scenes and documenting, recovering, and identifying human remains, to “collect and preserve physical and biological evidence.” It’s a career many, including men, won’t undertake due to the likely traumatic experiences that come with staring at human remains and digging up probable cause(s) of their death. But speaking recently on why she decided to choose to become a forensic entomologist, Viclinlove said:  “I love collecting body fluids and I have been doing this for some years and never had any fears or nightmares. “I decided to become a forensic entomologist because I like to estimate the age of insects developing on human remains at a crime scene to help with an on-going investigation,” added Viclinlove. The no-fear factor in her pushed her to begin a journey into the world of fashion and business. Today, Viclinlove’s brand, Victoria Riverson, which she launched about six years ago, has become a top brand. “I love fashion and I started my clothing line in 2016. When I first started my fashion brand, Victoria Riverson, I didn’t know how to design. I worked with other manufacturers. Now I know more about designs than I did a few years ago. This has been the game changer for me.” Viclinlove expressed. The daring spirit in her has further propelled her to launch deeper into business and even dream bigger. “I decided to own a club afterwards. Now I am opening up a car wash and restaurant which is my new project,” Viclinlove stressed. 