The Presidency, yesterday, came hard on the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), accusing it of plotting to grab power in 2023 by stealth, using instruments of anarchy, social upheaval and disorderliness. The Presidency, which upbraided PDP for orchestrating the plot under the cover of the current energy crises, wondered why the party would resort to agitation and issue subliminal threats, rather than work for the harmony of citizens and country. PDP had, in a statement signed by Debo Ologunagba, National Publicity Secretary, on Sunday, warned that there is a limit to what the people can bear. The opposition party had asked: “Is it not an unpardonable dereliction of duty that while the nation is in turmoil and agonising under a collapsed national grid, protracted fuel crisis, distressed aviation sector, plummeting currency, crippled production and commercial activities, President Muhammadu Buhari remains aloof and ‘absent’ as always?” But reacting through the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the Presidency said PDP “has given itself away as being interested only in the destabilisation of the country, peradventure it could then sneak its way back to power. “Less than 24 hours after the Department of State Services (DSS) raised the alarm about sinister plots by some elements to cause disorder in the land, using the energy crisis as a smokescreen, the PDP issued a statement, saying: ‘Our party fears that the situation is getting to a boiling point and can trigger a nationwide agitation that might be worse than the October 2020 EndSARS protests, if not addressed immediately.’ “Which patriotic political party or organisation ever threatens its country with anarchy, social upheaval and disorderliness, except one still smarting from its snout being yanked from the honeypot, as happened to PDP in 2015?” The Presidency added: “We wish to remind the now tepid opposition party that it was Nigerians that gave it the boot seven years ago, and those same Nigerians have not forgotten the travails they experienced, at a time the country was awash with money: no power, no infrastructure, insurgents ran riot round the nation, and our collective patrimony was looted blind. Those same Nigerians are not ready for another PDP misrule, not now, and perhaps not for a long time to come. “Rather than plot and encourage ‘agitation worse than October 2020 EndSARS’, which it may well be conceiving, the PDP should work for harmony and cohesion in the country, if it ever understands such concept.” 