• UNEP at 50: Buhari seeks action to overcome climate challenges Heads of State, environment ministers and representatives from Nigeria and 174 other nations have endorsed a historic resolution at the UN Environment Assembly (UNEA) in Nairobi to end plastic pollution and forge an international legally binding agreement, by the end of 2024. The resolution addresses the full lifecycle of plastic, including its production, design and disposal. The resolution, entitled, ‘End Plastic Pollution: Towards an Internationally Legally Binding Instrument’, was adopted at the conclusion of the three-day UNEA-5.2 meeting, attended by more than 3,400 in-person and 1,500 online participants from UN Member States, including 79 ministers and 17 high-level officials. The resolution, based on three initial draft resolutions from various nations, establishes an Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee (INC), which will begin its work this year, aiming to complete a draft legally binding agreement by the end of 2024. That in turn, is expected to present a legally binding instrument, which would reflect diverse alternatives to address the full lifecycle of plastics, the design of reusable and recyclable products and materials, and the need for enhanced international collaboration to facilitate access to technology, to allow the revolutionary plan to be realised. Plastic pollution soared from two million tonnes in 1950 to 348 million tonnes in 2017, becoming a global industry valued at $522.6 billion, said United Nations Environmental Programme. It is expected to double in capacity by 2040. In her remarks to the UNEA, Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, noted that the theme was based around “Strengthening Actions for Nature to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). “One thing we know for certain is that protecting nature is at the core of achieving the 2030 Agenda and goals of the Paris Agreement.” Muhammed, who was Nigeria’s former Minister of Environment, said: “If we are to ensure food and water security for all people around the world, we need to prevent ecosystem collapse.” ALSO, President Muhammadu Buhari said that the coming of UNEP, 50 years ago, underscores the need to make climate issues a priority for the entire world, even as he urged concerted action to make the organisation’s efforts a success story. n a congratulatory message to the Special Session to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the United Nations’ body in Nairobi, Buhari said: “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of UNEP’s existence, we laud the efforts of UNEP and encourage broader action to overcome climate change, biodiversity, rising levels of pollution and waste – being three major crises threatening our planet. “Notably, desertification and drought are threatening lives and livelihoods, which further underscores the need to boost biodiversity in ecosystem restoration. “We thank UNEP for its role in reducing biodiversity loss and for being a major player in the global movement to slow deforestation and accelerate afforestation. “We recognise that restoring key ecosystems is crucial to help combat climate change and achieve sustainable development. “Therefore, by collaborating with partners such as UNEP, we believe that much more successes would be recorded as we journey in our collective struggle against climate change.”