Declares nation may become a major world power in no distant time
Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, has said that Nigeria will become a major world power in no distant time if it outgrows bigotry, tribalism and ethno-religious biases in its political conversation. Fayemi, who stated this at a birthday symposium in honour of the Chief Executive Officer, Connected Development (CODE), Mr. Hamzat Lawal, in Abuja at the weekend, urged citizens to build a consensus around major issues of concerns and develop a national template for some irreducible behaviours in leadership position. According to him, nation-building is a continuous process, and it is always a pressing business of the day that must be done urgently, and called on citizens to love the country and imagine it as a major world power in no distant time. “I am personally uncomfortable with the practice of our politics and political conversation. We should have outgrown bigotry, tribalism and ethno-religious biases. “Citizens must love the country and imagine it as a major world power in no distant time. “These challenges in our country today provide us with the opportunity to take a position and take a stand and walk for the resolution of such challenges. “Nigeria will belong to those who are prepared to stand up, stand firm and take control of their destinies as the late Senator Robert Kennedy once said that ‘it is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped.’” Fayemi said that Lawal is a major voice in the sustainable development goals action movement for young people and emerging leaders. He said that some lessons to take away from Lawal’s story was that for one to succeed, one needs to imbibe certain virtues in life and that was one of the most important things youths often take for granted. Fayemi, therefore, urged youths to value knowledge because without it, they would not develop the right intellect, experience and skills set that to help them prepare for a functional future. He said that the pursuit of knowledge would liberate them from fears, biases and limitations. Also speaking at the event, the founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank and President of the Anap Foundation, Mr. Atedo Peterside, urged Nigerian youths to shun sentiments and co-operate with each other across the board to achieve success in their endeavours. On his part, Lawal said that he had impacted lives and built people’s capacity the same way he was influenced by Ewa Ileri. Lawal, therefore, launched a mentorship initiative called the Ewa Ileri Leadership School, adding that every year, he would select 20 young people to go to Ebonyi for learning. He said that as he clocked 35, he would use the new face of his life to contribute his quota to change Nigeria through politics, adding that Nigeria is where it is today because youths allowed it. Besides, he said that a political movement called the Green Nigerian Movement had been launched to mobilise youths, persons with disabilities in the 774 local councils to build alliances to change the political narrative. 