• Launches probe into Ibadan-Lagos train fuel saga
• Senate readies to re-amend Proceeds of Crime Bill 2022, a week after passage House of Representatives adhoc committee investigating recovery of outstanding debts owed by oil and gas companies to Nigeria has vowed to deal with companies that failed to appear before it. The investigation is based on the report of the National Extractive Industries Extractive Initiative (NEITI) that 77 oil and gas firms operating in Nigeria owe the Federal Government over N2.6 trillion. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC, Abia), who is heading the 18-member committee, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), yesterday. She said: “People owe and there is evidence to show that they owe. And if you don’t pay, that shows you are violating certain laws of the land. There is no crime without punishment. So, if we find you culpable of violating the business agreement, you have to pay for it.” THIS came as the House resolved to investigate circumstances that led to a train conveying passengers from Lagos to Ibadan running out of fuel midway in the journey. The resolution followed the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance by Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu. In his motion, Elumelu regretted that the incident subjected commuters to possible attacks by hoodlums, adding: “Such episode exposes the carelessness, irresponsibility and incompetence of the management of NRC to effectively and efficiently manage the sector.
ALSO, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, warned against ‘over-regulation’ of the maritime industry at the opening of a public hearing on five bills organised by the House Committee on Maritime, Safety, Education and Administration. He said the bills seek to reform and reorganise the nation’s maritime transportation industry fundamentally. According to him, “It is to make it more attractive to investors and better suited to meet the needs of the people who rely on the maritime industry in various ways.” MEANWHILE, the Proceeds of Crime (Recovery and Management) Bill, 2022, passed by the Senate, last week, is being considered for a re-amendment, the upper legislative chamber indicated yesterday. The consideration of a motion for re-committal sponsored by Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North), prompted the decision to re-amend the bill. The senate leader relied on Orders 1(b) and 52(6) of the Senate Standing Orders 2022 (as amended) to move for the amendment of the bill He explained that the re-amendment became expedient following the amendment that was made to Clause 74, which placed the burden of proof on investigating agencies but not on defendant as recommended by the joint committee in its report. According to him, the amendment runs contrary to the provision of Article 12(7) of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UNTOC). 