Former Super Eagles Coach, Christian Chukwu, has urged Nigeria and Ghana to be professional in their approach to their Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifying matches scheduled for March 25 and 29 in Cape Coast and Abuja, respectively. Speaking ahead of the first leg of the World Cup qualifying tie, Chukwu charged the Ghana Football Federation to ensure the Super Eagles are not harassed by spectators, players and officials or employ any unprofessional antic that could rubbish the existing cordial relationship between both countries. He also urged Nigerian authorities to be sportsmanlike in handling the Black Stars when they come for the return leg, adding that the whole world will be watching out for good football from both teams. According to Chukwu, based on the football rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana, it will be unreasonable for the Black Stars to be hostile to the Super Eagles in the away tie, as such treatment can lead to reprisal behaviour when they come to Nigeria. He reminded Super Eagles to be aware that the World Cup qualifier would be tough and advised the team to be disciplined in their approach to the matches. The former Kenya manager also urged the Super Eagles not to underestimate the Ghanaian team simply because of their poor performance at the just-concluded AFCON in Cameroun. “I don’t think Ghana will try to use any foul means to bring the Eagles down because if they do that, it would affect them when they come to Abuja. “I also don’t think the no COVID-19 certificate, no entry to the stadium rule will also affect foreigners. But it is left for FIFA to clarify the issue because Nigeria needs some level of support to survive in Ghana. I believe the Eagles will give a good account of themselves in both legs,” he said. But, Super Eagles Team Manager, Patrick Pascal, has advised Nigerians hoping to watch the Cape Coast leg of the tie to heed the advise by Ghana’s Ministry of Sports on COVID-19 certificate. According to Pascal, “All Super Eagles players and officials have COVID-19 certificates. If the rules still affect foreigners, I believe it will also affect Nigerian supporters travelling to Ghana. Therefore, they should do the right thing. “To guide against any embarrassment, I will advise Nigerian fans’ clubs to tell their members to get vaccinated before embarking on the trip to Ghana. “However, I must assure you that Ghana FA cannot treat us badly because they know they will also come to Nigeria for the return leg. The Eagles are ready for Ghana.”