Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has pledged commitment to prudence and accountability in the deployment of the state’s resources at his disposal. Uzodimma disclosed this in an interview on Channels Television, monitored by The Guardian in Owerri, the state capital, maintaining that he was conscious and has been executing projects that would add value to Imo people. His words: “We are working through our prudent measures, we are able to identify priority projects that will add value to our people and ensure that economic activities in Imo State are stimulated. “The contractors are doing well, but we will continue to put pressure to ensure that they are not relaxed – But I’m impressed so far with the quality and quantity of construction going on in the state.” He pointed out that the quality of the roads under construction were within the design standards, stressing: “It is our usual routine programme to inspect roads and other projects of the state government. “To also ensure that the construction is according to standard and specifications – and the speed is also there to make sure all the projects are completed within record time.” On President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC), Uzodimma said the president’s achievements were unprecedented, adding: “With the level of President Buhari’s accomplishments from 2015 till date, APC has capacity to beat any presidential candidate that the People Democratic Party (PDP) may present next year.” On his capacity as Imo governor, he maintained that his performance had led to envy of his opponents, saying: “My performance attracted envy and changed the character of political opposition in the state.” When asked about criticisms of his administration, he said: “In every profession and career, there are bound to be challenges and even our detractors will agree that a lot has happened in Imo State.” Uzodimma said he faced serious challenges when he assumed duty as governor, adding: “Because of the limited resources at our disposal, we adopted segmented approach and reprioritised our programmes.” He appealed to Imo people to identify with his administration: insisting: “I have said a number of times that our leaders, who feel offended should to come back, because I am not taking anything personal, but looking at the collective interest of Imo State and its development, as well as the interest of our youths and women.” 