 Grammy Awards | PHOTO CREDIT: GABRIEL BOUYS/AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES The 2022 Grammy Awards are only a few days away, and while we wait for the biggest night in music yearly, it wouldn’t hurt to be prepared.   The 64th Annual Grammy Awards will honour the works of music artists from the past year across 86 categories, including two new awards. While the nominations were announced back in November 2021, the list is led by music star Jon Batiste, who received 11 nominations this year. And he is closely followed by Justin Bieber, H.E.R., and Doja Cat with eight nominations and Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo with seven. Here’s everything you need to know about the 2022 Grammy Awards, including details you might have missed: When’s The Grammys? The 64th Grammy Awards will take place at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Sunday, April 3. The award show was postponed from January 31 due to a COVID-19 surge. How Do You Watch The 2022 Grammy Awards? The award show will be broadcasted by CBS, while the Grammy Awards Premiere Ceremony will be streamed live on GRAMMY.com and the Recording Academy’s YouTube channel. Who’s Hosting? None other than The Daily Show’s Trevor Noah, who’ll be hosting the award night for the second time in 2 years. Announcing Noah as the choice host, Harvey Mason Jr., CEO of the Recording Academy, said, “Trevor was amazing as our host for the 63rd GRAMMY Awards with praise from the music community, music fans and critics.” “We’re so excited to welcome Trevor back to the GRAMMYs stage and feel fortunate to once again have him hosting what we believe will be an unforgettable evening.” Hopefully, he keeps the jokes clean to avoid rehashing of the 2022 Oscar Awards ‘incident.’ Who’s Performing? The biggest night in music would be incomplete without performances from top musical acts, and the list of this year’s lineup is giving EVERYTHING! The Recording Academy, on March 15, announced the first wave of acts to hit the stage, including Billie Eilish, BTS, Rodrigo, Lil Nas X, Jack Harlow, Brandi Carlile and Brothers Osborne. The list also includes H.E.R., Chris Stapleton, Nas, and Jon Batiste. A special “In Memoriam” segment will also feature Cynthia Erivo, Leslie Odom Jr., Ben Platt, and Rachel Zegler singing songs by the late Stephen Sondheim. The show will be opened by the Silk Sonic duo; Bruno Mars and Anderson.Paak. And we should expect John Legend, Carrie Underwood and J Balvin with Maria Becerra to hit the stage, along with Maverick City Music, Aymée Nuviola and Billy Strings. The 2 New Categories Noting to fear, but the two new categories are only contributing to the award’s show’s versatility and not taking from it. The Best Global Music Performance category nominees include “Mohabbat” by Arooj Aftab, “Do Yourself” by Angelique Kidjo & Burna Boy, “Pà Pá Pà” by Femi Kuti, “Blewu” by Yo-Yo Ma & Angelique Kidjo, and “Essence” by WizKid Featuring Terms. While the Best Música Urbana Album nominations are Afrodisíaco by Rauw Alejandro, El Último Tour Del Mundo by Bad Bunny, Jose by J Balvin, KG0516 by Karol G, and Sin Miedo (Del Amor Y Otros Demonios) 8 by Kali Uchis. Which Nigerians Were Nominated? Nigerians have a whole lot more to look out for as our very own Wizkid and Femi Kuti received two nominations each. One in the Best Global Music Performance category, which recognises new vocal or instrumental Global music recordings. And the other in the Best Global Music Album category for albums containing at least 51% playing time of new vocal or instrumental Global Music recordings.