• Flouts court order, dissolves Kano executive
• Adamu assumes office, eyes victory in 2023 polls Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has begun a “clandestine plot to alter the newly passed Electoral Act 2022 to introduce clauses that will compromise the 2023 general elections.” The opposition party, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Debo Ologunagba, claimed: “APC, having realised that it is running out of time and cannot meet up with the already released electoral timetable now seeks to frustrate and derail the ongoing electoral process.” PDP said it had, on good authority, that the Buhari Presidency has perfected plots to use the APC leadership in the National Assembly to orchestrate an amendment to the Electoral Act, and create an opening for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to alter its already released 2023 Election Timetable and Schedule of Activities to accommodate the APC. It said: “Our party has information about how APC has been mounting pressure on INEC to push forward the already scheduled dates for the 2023 general elections. “The PDP vehemently rejects this plot, which amounts to shifting the goal post in the middle of the game, and cautions INEC to resist such heinous design against our democracy.” MEANWHILE, the internal crisis rocking the party in Kano took a fresh turn, yesterday, as the National Working Committee (NWC) dissolved the state’s leadership structure. The directive, contained in a statement signed by National Organising Secretary, Umar Bature, affected executive members at state, local council and ward levels. The action came hours after the state leadership secured an ex-parte injunction at the Federal High Court, Abuja, restraining the NWC and INEC from dissolving the structure. The PDP headquarters, consequently, announced a seven-man caretaker committee, led by Ibrahim Atta, to take control of the party in Kano for the next 90 days. Reacting, the state chairman, Shehu Wada Sagagi, argued that he remains in charge, insisting the directive is invalid. In another development, the newly elected national chairman of (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, yesterday, formally resumed duty at the national secretariat in Abuja. Adamu, who arrived the premises 11:00 a.m., alongside other members of the NWC, promised he would do all within his power to ensure the party emerges victorious in next year’s general elections. He added: “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general elections. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have heard about the President is that he has complete allergy for failure. So, failure will not be in APC from today.”