The Federal Government has said that it remains commitment to improving the conditions of the Nigerian people with her programmes and policies under the present administration. This was stated yesterday by President Muhammadu Buhari, at the official commissioning of the housing project under the National Housing Programme, (NHP), phase 1 in Abere, Osun State. The President, who was represented the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, said that the that the motive of the federal government was beyond improving the human condition of living through the provision of houses like the project being commissioned, but by also providing opportunities to fulfil its pledge to her citizens. He said “The Micro, Small and Medium Scale, (MSMS), businesses that drive our economy were the ones who won the contracts to build these houses. “Not only did their successful bids offer an opportunity for these companies and their employees, through them we have unleashed a value chain of economic activities that improved the conditions of the mass of Nigerian people. “They engaged suppliers who benefit from sub-contracts for the supply of building materials from sand to cement, roofing and plumbing material to doors and electrical fitting. In the process, Nigerians at the bottom of the pyramid such as artisans, builders, skilled and unskilled workers and food vendors were not left out of this economic value chain.” The president also said that “Some of the people our country remains committed to move towards prosperity and away from poverty and we are already reaching them by providing opportunities for employment for those who were hitherto unemployed.” The president also used the opportunity to announce the fulfillment of its promise of allocating houses in preferred state of choice to winners of the 1994 African Cup of Nations, saying it is better late than never. “But there is more to our message of change and improving the human condition in these housing projects. They make possible, that which had seemed impossible. It provides an opportunity to remember our heroes, the valiant Super Eagles, to whom our country made a promise of providing housing for winning the 1994 African Cup of Nations, which has remained unfulfilled before now,” Buhari said. “On behalf of the federal government of Nigeria, it is a great honor for me to redeem the promise Nigeria made to these patriotic Nigerians, even if belatedly. Anyone of them can pick houses from any of the 36 states, I invite you to pick from that which is being commissioned today,” he said. According to Buhari, “As the saying goes, it is better late than never and I have approved allocation to redeem the outstanding allocation to 22 members of the Super Eagles in National Housing Estate located in their state of choice, and their keys and title documents will be handed over at the commissioning in their state while the remainder of the housing is allocated to willing members of the public.” In his welcome address, the Zonal Director (South West) National Housing Programme, Dr. M. Muhammed, noted that the land the project was built on was donated by the minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola when he was governor in the state. He said “The project is a testament to the popular saying that ‘what goes around, comes around’, the land for this project if you recall representative of the President sir, the land for this project was awarded by you when you were governor in this Osun State. Today, you are here commissioning the project.” Also at the event was the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, represented by the Commissioner for Lands and Physical Planning, Nathaniel Agunbiade. 