The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, has assured that the Federal Government will continue to invest hugely in education to boost the quality of teaching and learning in the country. Adamu made the pledge in a message he sent to the 33rd convocation ceremony of the Federal College of Education, Eha-Amufu, near Nsukka in Enugu State on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that no fewer than 1,611 students were awarded Nigerian Certificate of Education (NCE), while 69 others got their Professional Diploma in Education (PDE) from the institution. Adamu said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration had always given education special attention, which he said, informed the decision to upgrade teachers’ retirement age from 60 to 65 years. “This administration invests hugely in education to ensure quality teaching and learning. “Government has ensured that all tertiary institutions in the country received robust interventions from TetFund to boost infrastructure in institutions. “Many structures I inaugurated earlier today in this college before the convocation ceremony, attest to government’s huge funding on tertiary institutions in the country. “It is because of the regarding government has for teachers as critical stakeholders in education that it upgraded teachers’ retirement age from 60 to 65 years,” he said. Adamu, represented by Mr Chukuemeka Nwajiuba, the Minister of State for Education, urged teachers to reciprocate the government’s gesture by being dedicated to their duties and to be good role models to students. “Teachers are critical stakeholders in education, so they should always strive to comport themselves to dignity and respect the teaching profession deserves. “I commend the Provost of the college, Dr Pauline Ikwuegbu, for her good performance and judicious use of funds as testified to by the facilities I inaugurated today in the college.” The minister, who congratulated the students, advised them to put the knowledge they acquired to good use so as to contribute their quotas to national development. Also speaking, Ikwuegbu, who is also the first female provost of the college, said that the convocation was meant to confer certificates on students found worthy in character and learning. “At this 33rd convocation, we conferred 1,611 graduates with NCE and 69 with PDE certificates, having been found worthy in character and in learning. “I congratulate them for successful completion of their courses and urge them to always be good ambassadors of their alma mater. “Don’t see your academic attainment today as the climax but a pedestal for more academic pursuits in life.” She listed some of her achievements since the assumption of office in 2018, attributing them to the good working relationships between staff, students, management, and the college’s governing council. The provost expressed appreciation to the minister for finding time to witness the 33rd convocation and 40th anniversary of the college as well as the inauguration of projects completed within three years of her administration. Some of the projects inaugurated by the minister include an administrative building, 1,000 capacity auditorium, and a farmhouse, where chickens, rodents, and pigs would be reared. New buildings for the school of arts, school of social sciences, and school of languages were also inaugurated. Prof. Paulinus Okwelle, Executive Secretary, National Commission for Colleges of Education, and Mr Doifie Buokoribe, Chairman, FCE Eha-Amufu Governing Council also attended the convocation. In their separate remarks, they commended the provost for her achievements within three years of assumption of office, urging her to keep it up. Some of the graduands told NAN in separate interviews that they were grateful to God, who made it possible for them to graduate successfully, pledging that they would be good ambassadors of the college. 