• Rivers group threatens fresh protest over state of  East-West road Irate residents of Chukuku, yesterday, barricaded the road connecting Gwagwalada to Kuje as early as 6:00 a.m., preventing human and vehicular movement in the area, in protest against incessant kidnapping in the community. The community, which is a few kilometres away from Kuje, the headquarters of Kuje Area Council in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja, has recently become the epicentre of abductions in the nation’s capital. The Guardian learnt that four people,  including women, were kidnapped  on Wednesday night. The gunmen were said to have raided the village in a Gestapo manner, shooting sporadically as residents scampered to find safety. The abduction came a few days after kidnappers stormed Yangoji community in Kwali Area Council, kidnapped two women and shot their father dead. Also, a young man was abducted in Petti village for three days, but released after the payment of N3 million as ransom.
Angered by this development, the residents, who were disturbed by the rate of killings, abductions and rustling in Chukuku and surrounding communities, vowed not to allow any vehicle on the road until the government addressed the security situation in the area. The blockade forced motorists to turn back as protesters insisted that no one would be allowed in and out of the community.
They blamed security agents for not being proactive in combating the menace, despite intelligence report made available to the police. IN another development, a group known as Ogoni People’s Assembly has threatened fresh protests against the deteriorating state of Eleme area of the East-West road. The threat followed delay by the contractors handling the failed portion of the road to return to site. The Guardian learnt that the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs had promised to resume work on the road by the end of March. Leader of the group, Probel Williams, said they are not satisfied with the response by the FG to their demands. Williams threatened that all companies in Eleme would be shut down when they resume their protest. He said: “ How do you explain that such a road that conveys the treasure of the entire nation is in that state and even after protest nothing has happened “Any moment from now, we will take them by surprise, and this time we will not only occupy the road, but we will also shut down all the companies and that time is fast coming. “We have been able to show that we have been responsible and non-violent, that is why he engaged them, spoke with authorities and nothing has been done. The second phase of the protest is coming.” 