 hypertension High blood pressure is a condition where the force of the blood against the artery walls is too high. It is often termed hypertension when the blood pressure is above 140/90, and is also life threatening when the pressure is above 180/120. This condition has been known to show no symptoms and can result in other health concerns such as a stroke, and heart disease.   The often prescribed diet for patients with high blood pressure is to eat meals with less salt, which should be followed up with regular exercises and then medications to help keep it in check. In Nigeria, hypertension cases occur above 1.5 in a year. Foods also that should be avoided are sugars from foods like sugar-sweetened beverages. So it’s not just salt that can trigger high blood blood pressure but sweets as well According to practitioners, there are specific foods that can help with hypertension and they are foods like  vegetables, whole grains, fruits, nonfat or low-fat milk and dairy foods,legumes,  nuts,lean meat, poultry, fish, seeds, and healthy fats. While the amount of salt should plummet to 2,300 milligrams per day, and substituted for foods that have minerals magnesium,calcium, and potassium. Plant-based carbohydrate-containing foods like whole grains, fruits and vegetables can aid in lowering hypertension. Take a turn and munch on nutrient dense foods and complex carbs for a life free of hypertension. Here are the foods to help begin the healthy journey. Beans Beans are a healthy option with soluble and insoluble fibre, it is also rich in protein, minerals and vitamins. It also has magnesium which aids in healthy blood pressure. According to a study, published in the American Journal of Hypertension, individuals who indulge in eating beans witnessed a healthier blood pressure. The study also revealed that consuming 1 2/3 daily servings of  beans dramatically brought down one blood pressure. Yoghurt Yoghurt plays the support role of reducing blood pressure because of the trifecta which it contains. This aids the magnesium, potassium and calcium. The probiotics which maintain the microbiome also play a role in reducing blood pressure. Ways to enjoy Yoghurt are numerous like parfait and frozen yoghurt to mention a few. Dates Use dates instead of sugar, especially if you are a sweet tooth. This naturally sweetner rich i magnesium, fibre and potassium supports healthy blood pressure. It can be incorporated into meals and drinks great for a healthy heart. Oats Oats are unrefined grains that are great for a better health without blood pressure. They are high in a type of fibre known as beta-glucans which is associated with reducing high blood pressure. Oats also contain 3 types of grain endosperm, bra and germ making oats a a rich whole grain option since eating foods high in fibre help to reduce the chances of hypertension by being being a boost to the gut. Banana Rich in potassium, banana’s aid healthy blood pressure. According to American Heart Association, individuals with threatening high blood pressure should incorporate banana’s to their diets which can be incorparated into meals in all sorts of ways.  