Ahead of Thursday’s national executive committee (NEC) of the ruling All progressive congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari has thrown his weight behind Governor Mai Mala Buni as chairman of the caretaker committee of the party. Buhari, in correspondence to the chairman progressive governor’s forum (PGF), Atiku Bagudu, said the Buni-led caretaker committee should be allowed to proceed with all necessary preparations to hold the national convention of the party scheduled to hold on March 26. The correspondence dated March 16 and copied to the acting chairman caretaker committee of the party, Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger state, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), the DG SSS, the IGP of police, explained that he had to intervene to save the party from electoral defeat in the 2023 poll. The correspondence reads in part: “As you are, no doubt aware, the All Progressives Congress, APC, is currently facing a litany of controversies and some level of uncertainties that may ultimately question its status and affect the status and feasibility of its proposed National Convention. “In addition, it has come to my attention that, because of recent events, the APC is faced with a multiplicity of court cases pending against it in various courts across the country. As a result of this, the party faces the possibility and prospect of the invalidation of all its activities and actions by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Furthermore, the party has demonstrated its inability to proceed with the issue of effecting change in the leadership of its Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee (CECC), in a way that is inclusive, legal and respectful of the time limit set and required for giving the INEC sufficient notice of the time and venue for holding its convention. “No doubt, these controversies and uncertainties, as enumerated above, pose a real threat to the party; and may lead to a possible non-recognition of its activities, elections and the probable invalidation of all its other actions by INEC. This may ultimately even lead to its implosion and non-existence. “There is, therefore, an urgent need for the party to, as much as possible, avoid all controversies, litigations and all other necessary distractions and quickly get its acts together. “In view of the foregoing, therefore, | would like now to direct as follows: First, the issue of the leadership of the Caretaker Extra Ordinary Convention Committee (CECC), should immediately return to status quo ante; Second, ail members of the Governor’s Forum and their followers should desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to disunity in the ranks of the party, and ultimately jeopardize the transition to the convention.” 