An Islamic human rights organisation, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has called on the national leadership of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to call its Taraba State chapter to order.
 
It will be recalled that the Taraba State Chapter of the PDP intervened in the altercations between the state governor, Darius Dickson Ishaku and MURIC, by warning MURIC to stop inciting religious crisis. But MURIC has asked PDP national leadership to warn its Taraba State chapter as the issue at stake is not politics but religious cleansing and marginalisation of Muslims in the state in the area of appointments.
 
MURIC, in a press statement, by its director, Professor Ishaq Akintola, said: “We will like to state clearly, categorically and emphatically that the issue at stake is not politics but religious cleansing and marginalisation of Muslims in the state in the area of appointments. MURIC’s grudge against Governor Ishaku has to do with the way he has been trampling with impunity on the Allah-given fundamental human rights of Taraba Muslims.  
 
“It has nothing to do with his political party at all. We are protecting the interest of Muslims in the state. We are equally interested in good governance and responsible leadership that will ensure justice, equity and fairness to all irrespective of ethnicity or faith.  MURIC maintained that Ishaku is trying to cover up his crimes against Muslims in the state by whipping up political sentiment, wondering what has political alignments got to do with the marginalisation of Muslims in the state. It asked if the governor’s party instruct him to engage in anti-Muslim actions, insisting that PDP will not do that.
 
“Again Ishaku tried to be too smart by personalising issues and limiting it to a hate campaign by the director of MURIC. It is sheer blackmail and it will not work. It is not about Professor Akintola but the Muslims in the state and, by extension, all Nigerian Muslims. Making it an Akintola affair is a cowardly attempt at cheap blackmail.
 
“It will be recalled that the Muslims of Taraba under the aegis of Taraba Muslim Council held a press conference in January, where they accused Governor Ishaku of engaging in religious cleansing and denial of job opportunities to Muslims.” MURIC further said that it is therefore grossly mischievous of the governor and the Taraba chapter of the PDP to turn round blaming MURIC and Akintola for the allegations and accusing the duo of trying to incite religious crisis. “MURIC is used to such blackmail because each time we try to protect Muslims from the tyranny of their traducers, the latter sing the same song. They call MURIC unprintable names and accuse of of trying to cause religious war. The aim is to give them the opportunity to continue their diabolical agenda. “Ishaku is now singing the same old song. He is trying to hide behind one finger and living in self-denial. It cannot save him. But the national leadership of his party needs to caution the party’s state chapter to desist from turning a case of religious persecution to a party affair. It will definitely backfire.” 