•Lagos NURTW announces withdrawal from national body Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, yesterday, directed all Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) to beef up security and maintain visibility in motor parks in their areas of coverage. The directive followed indefinite suspension slammed on chairman of Lagos State Chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called MC Oluomo, by the national body. The commissioner said the move was necessary to curb any form of violence, which may arise from Akinsanya’s suspension. He, however, assured Lagos residents of adequate security of life and property. MC Akinsanya was suspended for alleged misconduct, insubordination and inciting of state members of the state chapter against the apex body. After his suspension, the transport union also directed him to immediately hand over the mantle of leadership to his deputy chairman and release all property belonging to the body in his possession to the state secretary, in a bid to avoid any leadership vacuum in the state. In the letter dated March 9, 2022, the national body stressed that it resolved to suspend MC Oluomo, after it became obvious that he was not apologetic over his actions, even after he was directed to explain reasons for embarking on such. According to the letter signed by the General Secretary of the national body, Kabiru Yau, the union promised to ensure that the NURTW constitution remains sacrosanct and adhered to by members across the country. The letter reads in part: “This is to convey to you that in line with Article 42 section 5, subsection I, II, III, IV, V, and VIII of the union’s constitution, you have been placed on indefinite suspension from office as State Chairman of Lagos State Council of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) with effect from March 9, 2022.” MEANWHILE, Akinsanya and all members of the union have withdrawn their membership from the national body. Rising from a meeting at the state secretariat, Agege, Lagos, Akinsanya announced the withdrawal of the state chapter from the national body. He said all attempts to have an amicable resolution to the crisis with the national body failed. The embattled chairman said members have protested to the Lagos State Government about the state of affairs in the union. He said: “Being law-abiding and responsible citizens, we have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all, we will not support any action that can threaten the peace that we cherish so much in Lagos State. “Therefore, I, Comrade Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya, on behalf of the State Administrative Council (SAC), State Executive Council (SEC) members and the entire union rank and file members of NURTW, Lagos State Council, with over 200 branches and zones, hereby resolve to immediately withdraw our membership and operation from the national body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos State and to write the Lagos State Governor, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and other relevant agencies about our decision. “It is important to state that our action is in line with Section 40 of the Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended, which provides as follows: Every person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his or her interests. This means that every person shall be entitled to join an association and exit freely without molestation.” He urged union members to go about their activities without molestation pending when the state government will make an announcement on their request. “If you see policemen in your parks, do not be afraid. They’re on the ground to protect us,” he added. 