Scores of hoodlums who attacked Njaba Police Station in Imo State were injured during a gun duel with police and army officers in the area on Tuesday. The bandits had attempted to gain entrance with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), but were later repelled. The Guardian learnt it was more than twice the hoodlums had attacked the station. Confirming the incident in a statement, the spokesperson of the Imo State Police Command, Michael Abattam, said in a statement that the police officers, on sighting the bandits, gave them a hot chase before the soldiers around the area joined, leading to the exchange of gunshots between the hoodlums and the security operatives. According to him, no life was lost, adding that the hoodlums ran away with injuries, while some arms abandoned were recovered. Abattam said: “The police operatives of the division who positioned themselves strategically and professionally, engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel and in the process they were suppressed, having suffered a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds, they retreated, running towards Njaba bridge in a Sienna vehicle and were given a hot chase by the police operatives. “Unfortunately for them, the hoodlums ran into a detachment of the Army at Njaba Bridge, who engaged them in another gun battle. “Consequently, an aggressive manhunt for the hoodlums is ongoing to recover more arms and to arrest the fleeing suspects since they cannot move far because of the bloodstains trails seen in the vehicle and on the ground in the bushes.” Abattam, continued: “However, at the scene, one pump action gun, abandoned by one of the injured hoodlums was recovered and the Sienna vehicle used and abandoned was towed to the station for further investigation. Meanwhile, in the course of the attack, due to the gallantry/ professionalism exhibited by the police operatives, no life was lost, no arms/ammunition was carted away and the building of the police station remained intact apart from the minor damage to the perimeter wall fence. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini psc, commended the officers and men for their gallantry and urged them not to relent in their efforts until all criminal elements and their partners are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law.” The statement added: “He then appealed to Imolites for the continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies, especially the Police, credible and timely information and to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action.”