  Seamfix, known for its expertise in providing innovative software solutions, and officially the first software development company in Africa to acquire the ‘ISO 27701:2019 PIMS’ certification, has added one more accolade to its belt with this prestigious certification for active participation in the Stanford Seed Transformation Program. The Stanford Seed Transformation Program is a highly-competitive global startup accelerator. The program provides promising entrepreneurs and organizations with mentorship and connections to develop a viable business; enabling them to substantially increase their reach by joining a global network with the goal of impacting the world through technology. Through the Stanford Seed Transformation Program, Seamfix was guided to develop the skills, tools, and mindset to grow and scale her business and positively impact the Pan-African and International communities. “As a people and software development company, we recognise the urgent need to do our part in rebuilding and revitalising the economy and our immediate community. For this reason, we have pinpointed 3 major goals ahead of 2030,” said Group CEO, Chimezie Emewulu, when interviewed on the company’s recent achievement. Chimezie expansiated on the company’s 3-fold goals to “empower 10,000 organizations, deliver value to 1 billion end-customers, and build 1000 leaders by 2030”. “We are confident that Stanford Seed will not only help us thrive, but will position us even better to pay it forward. We are committed to being active participants in the future of Africa and are proud to be a part of the esteemed group of companies and innovators that have passed this thriving benchmark.” Such strong and enthusiastic words definitely resonate with the future of the African continent and are sure to spread optimism within the company and its customers over the next 10 years or more. Congratulations to Seamfix on this accolade and we look forward to seeing how this certification furthers the company’s cause in changing the landscape of digital transformation in Africa. Find out more about Seamfix’s mission for digital transformation across Africa <Here>