The Abubakar Bukola Saraki Contact and Advocacy Council has asked former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to honourably bow out of the presidential race and support former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki. The group, which visited Atiku in his home state of Adamawa to solicit his support for Saraki’s presidential bid, said the former VP, who also declared last week to contest the country’s top seat, should consider ‘his political son’ (Saraki) as the best alternative for the job. Chairman of the group, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, who was Minister of Power and Steel as well as Ambassador to Mexico, said: “Nigerians, at this crucial time, need a president that can work for 18 hours daily.” According to him, Nigerians are in tears over bad leadership and need a person that has knowledge of the world economics and politics for quick and effective transformation of the country. Hagher, who acknowledged Atiku’s efforts in mentoring Saraki in political leadership, pointed out that the country needed digital, strong youths to take over the mantle of leadership. “Those of us that have reached 70 and above are analog. No pretence about it. Time has come for us, analogs, to bow out for the digital age people to take over leadership for effective running of the country, especially those young people that were tested in the past and they passed leadership examination. “Nigeria today is not where everybody that can be president. We need someone that can work for 18 hours daily. When Afe Babalola was talking of a president that Nigeria needs in 2023, he said the person must write his speeches himself. Saraki writes all his speeches. It is a sign of intelligence,” he said. The former envoy pointed out that Saraki had been tested as the governor of Kwara State, Senate president and had proven to be a leader that stands for justice and equity. He advised Nigerians not to use zoning to rob the country of a leader with the global connection through his schooling and working experience. The Adamawa PDP chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu, commended the group for selling a candidate with high leadership qualities to Nigerians, adding that the party’s interest “is to produce a candidate that can recover its mandate from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023.”