Maximise opportunity, guber aspirant tells party, Omerekpe tasks Ikpeazu on fatherly role Abia State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, pledged to support former President of the Senate Bukola Saraki in his presidential bid that will begin with securing the party’s ticket. State party chairman, Alwell Okere Asiforo, disclosed the decision to back Saraki when his lobby team, led by Senator Suleman Adokwe, visited the party in Umuahia, to solicit support for the former President of the Senate. Asiforo, who described Saraki as a good choice for the nation’s presidency based on his antecedents and performance in previous offices, added that the PDP desires the emergence of a credible candidate that could win the presidential election and restore the party to power. Adokwe told the party members that there was the need for the PDP to return to power at the centre in 2023 to enable it to redress what it did for 16 years, which the All Progressives Congress-led government destroyed in less than seven years. Citing insecurity, inflation, fuel scarcity and monumental corruption, among others, he lamented that the ruling party imposed socio-economic hardship of all ramifications on Nigerians. BESIDES, a former chairman of the state chapter of PDP and ex-senator, who is now a governorship aspirant, Emma Nwaka, has urged the party leadership to maximise the ‘golden opportunity’ it has to retain power by ensuring victory in next year’s gubernatorial poll. He spoke on the sideline during the formal opening of his campaign office in Umuahia, yesterday, when The Guardian sought his reaction on the zoning of the governorship position to Abia North and Abia Central zones, as announced by Asiforo. The zoning has been attracting mixed reactions from party members and stakeholders in the state including senators Theodore Orji, Enyinnaya Abaribe, Chief Onyema Ugochukwu and former President of the Senate, Adolphus Wabara. MEANWHILE, another PDP governorship hopeful, Ncheta Omerekpe, has called on Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to remain neutral and refrain from imposing candidates on the party during the selection process at all levels for the 2023 election. He stated this at the party secretariat when he presented himself to the party and informed members of his governorship quest, saying since 1999, the people of the state had never desired real change than they were currently seeking. In a veiled reference to alleged plans to impose candidates on the party, Omerekpe commended Ikpeazu for his maturity, insisting that even if the party leadership imposes an aspirant, he (Omerekpe) would easily defeat any contestant at the poll. Responding, Asiforo urged aspirants not to make inciting comments against one another, the party, aspirants or its leadership during their consultation and campaigns, maintaining that the party will give all aspirants and candidates a level playing field.