Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 9, Isaac Akinmoyede, has appealed to officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) not to consider embarking on an industrial action over welfare challenges. Akinmoyede, who made the appeal during his one-day working visit to Imo State Police Command, yesterday, said there was no reason for the speculated strike, adding that it was needless. He stated that President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, have put in place adequate measures aimed at uplifting the general well-being of the personnel, urging them to exercise patience to benefit from the efforts. According to him, payment of the pronounced 20 per cent increase in the salary of the officers would soon commence, adding that other incentives were being lined up to help boost their morale and ensure effective service delivery. He also commended the officers for their commitment to ridding the state of crime and criminality, adding that the zone under his watch would continue to prioritise their general welfare. He said: “We have heard of the speculated report that police officers want to go on protest. But such idea is needless and there is no reason whatsoever for it. “So I urge you not to give any thought to the speculated strike, because our President and IG are doing their best to continually uplift the general welfare of the personnel. “I am confident that officers and men of this Command and the zone in general are civil, committed and dedicated to their job. And I want to commend you for your efforts so far to bring down the rate of crime and criminality in our state.” Earlier in his remarks, the state Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini, gave assurance that his men and Command would not relent in their efforts to achieve a crime free Imo State. He also appreciated the IGP and the AIG for their continued support to the Command, which, according to him, has aided the successes the Command has recorded since he assumed office.