Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers, and former governor of Ekiti, Ayodele Fayose, have endorsed Ladi Adebutu for the 2023 gubernatorial election in Ogun. The duo declared their support on Wednesday in Abeokuta at the official declaration of Adebutu for the 2023 gubernatorial race in Ogun under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Wike, in his remark, noted that Adebutu had continued to spend his personal money and resources to assist the people of the state. He assured that electing him as the governor of the state would afford him a greater capacity to empower the people more. The governor described Adebutu as a courageous leader who stood and fought for the party when other leaders left. He, therefore, called on members and chieftains of the party, as well as the people of the state, to support Adebutu in his ambition to become governor of the state. Wike, who had also declared interest in the 2023 presidential race under the PDP platform, solicited support of the delegates ahead of the May 28 presidential primaries of the party/ Also, Fayose recalled that the party had in times past “struggled and travelled through the forest” in the state. He, however, commended Adebutu for standing firm and navigating through troubled waters to restore the party to a formidable force in the state. “After many years of struggle, it has indeed been tough, but we thank God that Adebutu has been able to emerge a worthy leader of PDP in Ogun by reconciling factional groups together,” he said. Adebutu, while responding, assured that if elected as governor, he would put in place a deliberate, concerted and determined team that would work together in recovering Ogun back from the shackles of disjointed and wasteful programmes He added that he would engage in deliberate actions and outcomes driven approach that would deliver the expectations of the generality of the citizens in a cost-effective and community driven way. Adebutu explained that he would ensure rapid, balanced and sustainable economic development. “This will be supported by instituting the appropriate reforms in the government machinery that ensures continuity, sustainability, good governance and effective performance by credible leadership,” he said. 