Nowadays more and more people are acquiring foreign cars. There are car factories all over the world, but only a few are getting ahead. What are these countries? Who makes the most famous cars in the world? Let’s find out! Germany
Germany has long been famous for the high quality of making cars. We are sure that almost everyone knows that the main famous cars are made in Germany. Every Dutchman loves their automobile brands. Audi, Volkswagen and BMW are made in German factories. BMW has glorified the German region of Bayern for over 100 years with headquarters in Munich. If you want to try all the charm of the latest BMW cars and other brands’ luxurious models of cars, you can use such renting services as Renty in Dubai. Rental services have so many advantages. First of all, you can make savings during travelling because the low prices of renting cars instead of expensive public transport will surely shock you. Secondly, it gives you an opportunity to have a free journey – you don’t have to follow the timetables and wishes of other people, you are totally free with a hired car. And in general, you will feel really luxurious and comfortable while  traveling and driving a rental iron horse. Use it! BMW’s main rival in the world market among premium German cars is Mercedes-Benz. The company is based in Stuttgart and its Formula-1 team dominated the 2010s. Four years ago, the Mercedes-Benz brand became the second most valuable car manufacturer in the world. Mercedes has 17 factories around the world, which allows the company to flourish in the economic sphere. PHOTO: Artiom Vallat/UNSPLASH Japan
You could probably hear that Japan is also very famous due to its high quality of cars. Like most Japanese companies, Mitsubishi’s rapid growth came in the second half of the 20th century, when Asian cars hit the American market. Now the Tokyo-based company is world-famous for its reliability, style and image progress. Over the past 10 years, Mitsubishi Motors has made its mark with models such as the Pajero, Lancer and Outlander. Let’s not forget about Honda, which was one of the first to bring cars with a hybrid engine to the mass market. In the early 2000s, the world was a fan of the Civic, and Acura stands out from Honda’s luxury cars. Like Mitsubishi, Suzuki and other Japanese companies, Honda is famous for its motorcycles and other two-wheelers. First place among Japanese automakers is taken by Toyota. Probably, cars of the Camry model can be seen in any corner of the world. Toyota’s recent successes see the company work on both a luxury car and a Lunar Rover to help astronauts explore the Moon. PHOTO: Zach Vessels/UNSPLASH USA
Almost 120 years ago, Henry Ford founded a company that is one of the symbols of American patriotism. Ford Motor Company still has a lot of weight in the world of automakers, although the main American brand has lost its palm to Japanese competitors. Now the Focus and Mondeo models are loved by many motorists, and the modern Ford Mustang GT is a dream for any young person. There is also General Motors in the US state of Michigan. After the bankruptcy in 2009, the company rapidly gained momentum. Cadillac and Chevrolet, which are included in the list of GM brands, have significant financial successes. In 2017, General Motors sold the unprofitable Opel without which the company’s business went uphill. PHOTO: Samuele Errico Piccarini/ UNSPLASH ***
If you are a great professional in the world of cars, then you probably did not learn anything new, but if you are a curious layman, then you could probably figure out that some familiar cars are made in nearby countries. Anyway, we hope that you were interested and informative and you found something new for yourself! 