Two stakeholders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, Alhaji Laid Tella and Revd. Adelowo Adebiyi, have warned those using unnecessary propaganda to worsen the crisis between the National Leader of APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the incumbent Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, to desist forthwith in the interest of Yoruba. The duo, in separate telephone conversations, said the traditional rulers, who have taken the responsibility to reconcile the two politicians, should be allowed the due respect to finish their assignment. Tella, a close friend of Tinubu, Aregbesola and Governor Gboyega Oyetola, said he saw the crisis coming over a year ago, saying: “I warned on my Facebook page that what does the minister want again in Osun and Yoruba politics?” He said while it is wrong for anyone to play unnecessary propaganda with the crisis, Tinubu has displayed unparalleled maturity by remaining mute despite the minister’s open assault to his (Tinubu) person. Adebiyi, one of the strong loyalists of Aregbesola, however debunked insinuation that the former governor of Osun had been going about begging prominent traditional rulers to reconcile him and his estranged political godfather, Tinubu. He said the minister was invited by the Ooni of Ife and Alaafin of Oyo for a peace meeting, adding that Aregbesola did not beg to be invited. MEANWHILE, Tinubu said that the need to lead the youths to a right direction and bequeath to them a country they could be proud of was the reason he decided to contest for the 2023 Presidency. He said that patriotic Nigerians know that the country needs a competent leader at this present time of its journey, who can unite the people, tackle insecurity and rebuild the economy for the benefit of the masses. Tinubu spoke yesterday in Ado-Ekiti during his consultation with members of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers in furtherance of his 2023 presidential aspiration. The former Lagos State governor said he was in Ekiti to consult with the traditional rulers that he would be contesting the 2023 Presidency so that he could get their prayers and support. He noted that the country has had problems with its leadership for a very long time, adding that it is time to elect a leader that could bring big change. Tinubu said that no one could do it alone, saying that there was need for co-operation, which led to the formation of APC. The Onisan of Isan-Ekiti, Oba Gabriel Adejumo, who spoke on behalf of the Council, said the constitution permits every qualified Nigerians to aspire for any position, saying that God will help him realise his ambition.