As Ukraine and Russia battle to change the dynamics of world power, history recorded a landmark event on March 2, 2022, when the life and times of a single individual reached a defining peak. Assuredly, the history of modern day Nigeria will not be complete without the exploits of certain persons, in the way that God has ordained them to affect the fortunes of this great country. Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, celebrated a milestone in his journey of life when he clocked eighty years on March 2. For a person with such modest and humble beginning to rise to the height of universal influence speaks of the combination of divine power and human vision. Growing up in the then remote village of Ifewara in present-day Osun State of Nigeria, Adeboye may have become a successful farmer, husband of many wives and may be the king of his domain, which is nothing bad. From the stories narrated by Adeboye himself, God propelled his mother to push him into the path of greatness, against all odds. His life history has become a compelling memoir that cannot be summarised in any single piece of this nature so I will only dwell on some of the salient events through which he has positively affected individuals across the globe and humanity in general.
  
It is common to read of the challenging background of great men and women indeed and it is no fiction to say that Adeboye’s life journeys surpass human understanding. I will tell you from a distance. Adeboye grew up in a rural community, where farming was combined with education. His mother was greatly inspired by the exploits of foreign and local missionaries and she created the picture of greatness for her little boy, with all the trappings of the polygamous environment in which he was being raised.   In a society dominated by occultism, witchcraft and traditional African religion, it would take God Himself to rescue Adeboye from the mouth of lions. Barely able to afford the cost of school uniforms, Adeboye would kick start an educational journey that took him trekking for the first 18 years of his life without shoes and borrowing kits for his secondary school graduation. By dint of hard work, ruggedness and display of excellence, Adeboye secured a scholarship to study at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and would later move on to the University of Lagos, where he became established as a renowned scholar. Traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria in pursuit of knowledge, Adeboye would himself later commence moulding the destinies of young men and women through teaching and mentorship programmes, in order to eke out a living. His life ambition was to become the youngest Vice-Chancellor of a university, until some personal challenges of life drove him to The Redeemed Christian Church of God, under the tutelage and mentorship of Pa Josiah Akindayomi, who took him through the rudiments of faith through the practice of holiness, aggressive evangelism and effectual prayers. 