 Osborn Nweze recently shared a photo of himself and a yet-to-be-identified woman Prince Osborn Nweze Umahi, the son of Ebonyi State governor Dave Umahi, was spotted in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, with an unknown lady. The young real estate entrepreneur shared a photo of himself holding hands with an unknown lady inside what appears to be an art gallery on social media. There is no doubt that Osborn Nweze is one of Nigeria’s most eligible bachelors. The thoroughbred businessman is well-versed in his field, having earned a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from Surrey University in the United Kingdom and a master’s degree in finance from Aberdeen University. Osborn Nweze is the Director of Finance of Forte GCC Innovative Solutions, the creator of Osborn Foundation, and the managing director of Brass Oil and Construction Limited, and is affectionately known as Ichie agu by his colleagues. The 21-year-old is the founder of the Osborne Foundation, which has made a great difference in the lives of disadvantaged Nigerians by distributing scholastic resources to them. Managing the family’s company, which includes Osborn Lapalm Royal Resort, the smart businessman has demonstrated exceptional competence at an early age. Osborn Nweze stands out among today’s youths who are disillusioned about the genuine meaning and use of riches, believing that it is primarily used to show off and demonstrate luxury in the eyes of the poor. In this millennial, where people are so prone to vanity and squandering their lives away, everyone loves nice things, and that includes connecting with folks, particularly young guys, who are focused and purpose-driven. In a recent interview, Osborn Nweze said that he recruits based on qualifications and expertise to keep the family business afloat. “As a CEO, I make sure I hire people based on their qualifications and their experience above every other thing. Proper and regular monitoring of the day to day “running of the business is also something I engage in. “If your employees are well qualified and you as a CEO is keeping tabs on your business, I believe such a business organization will go far,” Osborn Nweze added. 