• Arrest six suspected kidnappers in Adamawa
• Abductors of Plateau monarch contact family, mum on ransom Security operatives have killed two armed bandits in a gun battle along Abuja–Suleja–Minna road. Spokesman for the Niger State Police Command, Wasiu Abiodun, told The Guardian, yesterday, that the bandits attacked Dajigbe village in Gurara Local Council of Niger State about 3:00 p.m. on Monday and abducted some residents. Upon the receipt of credible information, according to him, the command mobilised police and military personnel from Zuma Barracks, Suleja, as well as local vigilantes to the area, and they engaged the bandits in a gun battle. In the process, he added, two bandits were neutralised and four motorcycles recovered from them. He said other bandits escaped into the forest with gunshot injuries. Meanwhile, Niger State government has reiterated its resolve to use of kinetic and non-kinetic approach to ensure that peace returns to the state. Commissioner for Local Government, Community Development, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, disclosed this at a news conference, after an emergency security meeting chaired by Governor Abubakar Bello, at the Government House, Minna. “Criminals are in our space, it is our responsibility to flush them out and we are not relenting. We are determined to do that,” he said. MEANWHILE, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Adamawa State has arrested six suspected kidnappers. The Commandant, Mohammed Maksha, said, yesterday, in Yola that the suspects were believed to be those terrorising people in Mubi, Hong and Gombi local councils. He identified them as Mohammed Umar, 40; Abubakar Jabbi, 25; Usman Abubakar, 28; Abdullahi Dogo, 25; Suleiman Maman, 22 and Umaru Umaru, 19. “The suspects were arrested by Nigerian Army, Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), and handed over to the state command for appropriate action. They were arrested with sophisticated weapons and they had made useful confessional statements. After our investigation, they will be charged to court,” he said. HOWEVER, the gunmen who abducted the District Head of Maraba Pushit of Mangu Local Council, Plateau State, Chief Dickyet Gupiya, last Thursday, told his family, yesterday, not to panic as the traditional ruler is in their custody. A close family member, who preferred anonymity, said that all the victim’s relations were worried that the abductors did not make financial demand for the release of their victim. Spokesman for Plateau State Police Command, ASP Gabriel Ogaba, had confirmed the kidnap, saying that he mobilised his men to go after the perpetrators. 