Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, yesterday, came to terms with the reality of governance, as he disclosed the state’s huge indebtedness under the immediate past administration, describing its finances as ‘being in bad shape.’ On assumption of office, he had reportedly lamented that Anambra was a failed state under Obiano’s first term and prior to his picking the governorship ticket had he queried: “If Anambra is not broken, why mend it.” Soludo, who raised alarm in a television interview monitored by The Guardian, yesterday, revealed that his predecessor left a huge debt profile amounting to about N109 billion and cash of between N300 million and N400 million. His words: “In terms of the debts I inherited, it runs into billions of Naira. In that of cash, we met about N300 million. “In fact let’s not talk about it. Our treasury is funny. But I hope we shall make money henceforth to help us fulfill our promises for infrastructure and development of the state. But in terms of what I met in our coffers, my brother, it’s pathetic.” He said the sorry financial status of the state was captured in the Audit Report of December 31 2021, published by the outgone administration of Obiano, Continuing, Soludo explained that Anambra is saddled with a debt profile of about N109 billion and about N400 million cash in the banks. He also stated that the debts do no include those arising from matured certificates of completion owed contractors and what might have changed between December 31, 2021 and March 17, 2022, when he took over. Soludo insisted that his predecessor left between N300 and N400 million in the state coffers, adding: “The state finance is in bad shape and in dire need of restoration.” The governor’s revelation might worsen Obiano’s situation at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) custody in Abuja where, despite a bail offer, the former governor is yet to meet the conditions at press time. The Guardian learnt that EFCC had placed stringent conditions including acquiescence to grant the former governor bail should the two Federal Ministry Directors, who must own verified property in Abuja and an undertaking by a Senator from the state fail. A source told The Guardian that those, who were approached to surety the ex-governor were unwilling to assist, while the three Senators from the state have all shunned entreaties to them, citing alleged abuses and distasteful attitude of Obiano’s wife. The former governor was arrested in Lagos airport where he was billed to fly to United States of America few hours after handover to Soludo. He was flown to Abuja and kept in EFCC detention facility and stayed five days before he was granted bail. However, he was yet to perfect his bail conditions as at the tile of filing this report. 