The National Universities Commission (NUC), has approved thirteen additional new courses on full time mode to Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, Oyo State. The new undergraduate courses approved for full time includes B. Tech Fisheries and Aquaculture, BLIS Library and Information Science, B.Sc Sociology, B.A. English Language and Literary Studies, B.Sc Hospitality and Tourism Management, and B.A. Philosophy, B.A. History; as well as B.Tech Forest Resource Management and B.Tech Wildlife and Ecotourism Management. Other courses whose establishment also got the nod of NUC include, B. Tech Consumer and Home Economics; B.Tech Survey and Geoinformatics as well as B.Tech Building. READ MORE: Bill to convert LAUTECH to conventional varsity scales second reading NUC, in a March 14 letter to the university, said that the approval of the thirteen new courses for the university, was based on the resource verification visit that was carried out recently by panels of experts to some proposed academic programmes in the institution. According to NUC, the effective date for the commencement of the programmes as 2021/2022 academic session. Commenting on the development, the Acting Vice-Chancellor, LAUTECH, Professor Mojeed Liasu, said it was a welcome development and one calling for encomium to be showered on the owner State under the able leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde FNSE and the Governing Council under Professor Ayodeji Omole. “We do not intend to take this confidence for granted and we shall continue to play according to the laid down rules,” Professor Liasu said. The approval of the new courses is a part of Oyo State Government’s plan to move the university away from just being a technology and science-focused to a conventional one. A bill to change its name from Ladoke Akintola University of Technology to Ladoke Akintola University passed the second reading that the state assembly last week. “We are working on it to ensure that our students and others like them have the opportunity of studying any course they like,” Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin said. “This time around, they will not be restricted to technical education or courses alone. This shows how futuristic and forward looking our Governor is.” 