Among other things, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Act of 2007, saddles the bank with the overall control and administration of the monetary and financial sector policies of the Federal Government.
 
Constitutionally, the bank is charged with diverse responsibilities prominent among which is ensuring monetary and price stability; issuance of legal tender currency in the country; maintaining external reserves to safeguard the international value of the legal tender currency; promoting a sound financial system in the country, as well as act as banker and provide economic and financial advice to the Federal Government.
 
Additionally, the CBN is vested with the responsibility of administering the Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Act (1991) as amended, with the sole aim of ensuring high standards of banking practice and financial stability through its surveillance activities, and the promotion of an efficient payment system.
 
Beyond its core functions, the CBN has, through its developmental mandate, taken major actions on all the key sectors of the Nigerian economy, and this can be gleaned from the over 40 interventions programmes all aimed at resetting and stimulating the nation’s economy.  “The CBN has prioritised, and quite rightly, economic growth, diversification and employment, and chooses appropriate mix/blend of monetary policies to support these, and not the other way round, simply because of insecurity and structural factors at play. There may well be some imperfections in the downstream repayments and so forth, but there are adequate safeguards and protections of depositors’ monies. This is nothing to be compared to the inordinate risk of giving away depositors’ monies to politicians to disburse.”
 
The ECOWAS consultant said that ABP has reduced the starvation that would have killed more people in the country than COVID-19, and other health challenges, adding that the interventions have not, in any way, reduced the commitment of the apex bank to maintaining financial and price stability.    
  
Whereas some financial experts have equated the interventions with quantitative easing in the equivalent of Uganda, The Guardian was informed that much of the funds are sourced from cash reserve ratio (CRR), enabling commercial banks to earn some interest on what could have been frozen assets.
 
Also baring his mind on the intervention programmes, a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria  (ANAN) Prof. Mainoma Akaro, said that the interventions have succeeded in raising a few millionaires in the economy.  