Demands Disciplinary Action Against Edo Deputy Governor Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has urged the Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, to return the mandate he got on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Wike made the demand at the inauguration of the Eastern Bypass Road, in Port Harcourt, yesterday.  According to a statement by his Media aide, Kelvin Ebiri, Wike said it was unfortunate that instead of seeking an appeal to the judgment of the court that sacked Umahi, he decided to verbally attack the judge.
 
Wike said: “Look at a governor making a reckless statement simply because a judge made a judgment according to his opinion, which you are entitled to appeal up to the Supreme Court.
 
“You have called somebody a thief in the market and you’re saying, ‘I’m sorry.’ It is late. We, the members of the public do not accept the apology, we don’t take it.”  That is one of the problems of party leadership. People cannot come out and take the bull by the horns. So, Governor Umahi, be rest assured that the PDP will continue this matter down to the Supreme,” he promised.
 
“You carry the votes of another party and join another party. Can you transfer votes? You work hard for somebody to win the election and tomorrow, the person says I have defected. If you have defected, leave the seat, if you know it’s easy. And this will checkmate most of these political harlots who will never sit down in one place.”
 
Wike, who also took a swipe at the deputy governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, whom he alleged, did not speak well of the party, said that he has written to the national chairman giving reasons why a disciplinary committee should be set up to look into the matter.
 
He said: “ I was watching when a deputy governor was ranting in the media, threatening the party that there is an alternative to PDP. This is the same deputy governor who knelt down to beg us to give them an umbrella. Today, he has the effrontery to threaten the PDP.”
 
He also berated the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), for abdicating its agreement to contribute 50 per cent of the cost of the construction of the Eastern Bypass Road that leads to its corporate headquarters office in Port Harcourt. 