 Wemimo Iyiola Samson, popularly known as Linomrlion Wemimo Iyiola Samson, popularly known as Linomrlion, has sent a message of deep appreciation to his teeming fans across the globe. Linomrlion, an online comedian, who is based in Turkey from where he churns out domesticated content targeted mainly at satisfying his fans, has grown to become one of Nigeria’s most known comedians. Willie Nelson, a singer, wrote: “When I started counting my blessings, my whole life turned around.” It was surely the same for Samson, who said his deep-seated love for his fans is usually what pushes him to come home sometimes to shoot skits. “With God on my side, I have been able to create a name for myself in the entertainment industry. I am one of the few ones in diaspora that shuttle between Lagos and Turkey to create contents for my fans. At times, it is cost-consuming but the end always justify the means,” Linomrlion said. Speaking further, Linomrlion, said: “My skits would keep coming as usual, I just urge my fans to keep supporting my craft because I can’t get anywhere without their love and support.” The entertainer, who is also into modelling, acknowledged that his style perfectly suits his fans, hence, the wide acceptance of his contents. “My comedy skits stand out because 98% of them are shot in a foreign land, but we still manage to localize our content. While I aspire to reach the level of top acts in the industry, what I am doing presently is well received by my fans,” Linomrlion noted. “I think my slang is peculiar. I have seen that some artists love it and use it as well. I am proud of that. My style in terms of clothing also speaks volumes about me,” Linomrlion said. The entertainer, who bagged an MBA from in Business Administration at the Aydin Istanbul University in Turkey, further said he adopted the use of “It is finished” in his skits to be unique. He argued that his only his fans can measure if the language stands him out among others. “Uniqueness is for the fans to judge. In my own little understanding, I think my slang ‘It is finished’ is peculiar. I have seen some other artists love it and use it as well, I am proud of that. My style in terms of clothing also speaks volume about me,” added Linomrlion. 