As group flays low women participation in politics, governance Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, yesterday, urged the State House of Assembly to support the Governor-elect, Prof. Charles Soludo, the same way it supported him to achieve a smooth administration in the last eight years. Obiano, who made the plea during a valedictory session organised by the House of Assembly in his honour as the outgoing governor, commended the lawmakers for the cordial working relationship and legislative support for his administration. The Obiano led- administration will formally terminate on Thursday, March 17, 2022 when Soludo will be sworn in as the sixth executive governor of the state. “It is always difficult to say goodbye, but I will remember the sixth and the seventh Assembly for your support. I appeal to you to accord the incoming governor the same legislative support and assistance you accorded me,” he stated. Earlier, the lawmakers took their turns during the session to commend Obiano for his achievements. Speaker of the House, Uche Okafor, described Obiano as “a visionary leader, who bequeathed laudable legacy projects to the state. It was a commendable partnership between the legislative and the executive arms of government, as we did not record any conflict.” Also speaking, representative Awka South l Constituency (APGA Awka South I Constituency) and Majority Leader of the House, Dr. Nnamdi Okafor, said Obiano was God send to the state and that he would be remembered for his investment in infrastructure development. MEANWHILE, a coalition of women organisations under the aegis of Nwanyi Bu Ife Advocacy Group has decried low participation of women in politics and governance in Anambra State. The women staged a peaceful protest at the State House of Assembly in Awka, yesterday, as they displayed placards with different inscriptions such as: Give Women More Voice; Nigeria Cannot Make Progress Without Women; Nigerian Women Matter And Their Votes Will Count In 2023 and Stop The Subjugation Of Women, among others. Spokesperson for the group, Dr. Ego Uzoezie, urged the legislature to accord women their rightful position with maximum security through positive legislations. Also addressing the protesters, representative of Onitsha South ll Constituency and member, House Committee on Gender, Mrs. Beverly Ikpeazu-Nkemdiche, lamented that few women were usually in the legislative and executive arms of government in spite of their population.