 Bridgerton | Netflix Lady Whistledown is coming back!   Just days away from Bridgerton’s Season 2 release scheduled for Friday, here’s a countdown of everything we look forward to in the new season. Fans can agree that finding out Regé-Jean Page wouldn’t be returning as the Hunk Duke of Hastings was a major heartbreak. But that’s okay; the new season promises a new love story. This is great news because it means the show has so much more to offer with storylines and plot twists, and since the Bridgerton’s are a huge family, we all look forward to it. So Anthony Bridgerton and Kate Shame, what do you have for us? And judging from the trailer, we’ll see a lot of the two spending time together and definitely having fun. The irony that our star love interest has fallen out of love makes this an even more interesting love story to look forward to. So remember, in season 1, Anthony was head over heels for Siena, the opera singer, but we all watched their love fizzle out mostly due to social standing and Anthony’s sense of duty. So when she ends things with him, Anthony’s search for a relationship becomes more of a duty, making his love story with Kate different and having us in high hopes. Remember Colin Bridgerton leaving on a trip abroad after Marina tried tricking him into marrying her and raising her unborn child taking total advantage of him. Trust us; we were screaming at our screen every time she came on. Anyway, Colin went away, his first stop being Greece, but who knows where he’s going next? And if we’ll see him at all this season. But we’re definitely rooting for Penelope getting a chance to be with him finally. If we don’t see it this season, maybe next? Side note as much as we don’t like Marina much, we’d love to see what happens to her. Okay, knowing Netflix, Eloise might not figure out Lady Whistledown’s identity this season. Just think of how long it took us to find out who she was, and we’re only the viewers. But knowing Eloise and she’s brilliant, she might figure it out pretty quick. We wouldn’t put it past her. Simon isn’t returning, but Daphne is, and since they have a child together, we might see the rest of the family even more. The trailer shows us some sneak shots of the mom and her kid. But Phoebe Dybevor told Entertainment Weekly her character has grown even more confident, and we’d see a much more free version of her. So fingers crossed, Bridgerton season 2 is everything we have dreamed about and hope for. But we wouldn’t be too worried because there was a reason it was Netflix’s biggest watch in the first month of its release back in 2020.  