Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, is committed to serving the people who gave him their mandate for two terms and politics will not distract him from delivering his mandate until his tenure ends in 2023. His Special Adviser on Information, Steve Oruruo, who said he was quoted out of context on the zoning issue with its attendant politics, made the assertion in a statement he issued in Enugu, yesterday, stressing that the governor was committed to infrastructure and human capital development until the end of his tenure. Oruruo said the clarification became necessary following misleading reports on the zoning controversy, adding that having understood the sensibilities, temperament and yearnings of Enugu people, Ugwuanyi would work harder to fulfill his part of the social contract. “There are many ongoing projects initiated by the governor, which he wants to see to their completion. The first ever long span flyover at the Nike Lake Road T Junction, geared towards relieving commuters of perennial traffic snarl has attained more than 70 per cent competition. “He is passionate about the 200-Bed Teaching Hospital and College of Medicine project at the Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT) Igbo-Eno, the state Secretariat Annex and other rural development initiatives tailored to ameliorate the sufferings of our people rather than politicking. He is focused on his mandate and will not entertain any distractions,” Oruruo stated. He disclosed that Ugwuanyi had continued to pursue his inclusive leadership, stressing that the approach had endeared him to many people in Enugu and the entire country. “Peace and harmonious social coexistence mean the world to the governor. He had successfully engendered reengineering of the political psyche of the people to embrace peace, conciliation and love for one another, as opposed to violence,” he added. Oruruo who frowned on being quoted out of context on issues of zoning in the party, maintained that the governor would rather focus on the robust, well-articulated and people-oriented programmes of delivering dividends of democracy to the people than dwell on politics. “The security and welfare of Enugu people have been the foremost concern of the governor in line with Section 14(2)(b) of the constitution. “His approach to security issues has been multi-pronged, cutting across re-engineering of Enugu political psychology, engendering goodwill across all divides, reforming the judiciary, empowering young men and women, eliminating all forms of brigandage and providing an enabling environment and logistics for security operatives to function optimally,” he said.