   Following fresh violence by bandits in Kagoro community, the Kaduna State Government, yesterday, imposed a 24-hour curfew on Jema’a and Kaura council areas. About 23 persons were killed and 70 homes set ablaze during protest trigged by violence from Fulani herdsmen in Southern Kaduna. An attack at Agbam Kagoro settlement in Kaura Local Council left several dead. Sources said youths blocked roads, set a bus ablaze after a mobile policeman opened fire and killed one of the protesters. The force spokesman in the state, ASP Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached, as his telephone was switched off.
But in a statement, the Commissioner For Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, stated:  “Following an advice from security agencies, the Kaduna State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Jema’a and Kaura local government areas with immediate effect. “This is to assist the security agencies to stabilise the situation in the areas, save lives and property, and enable the restoration of law and order.” He added: “Security agencies have full authorisation to enforce the curfew. Government appeals to residents of Jema’a and Kaura local government areas to cooperate with the security agencies in the urgent task of restoring peace and upholding law and order. “Government condemns the violence and all acts of lawlessness that have occurred in the area. Further updates will be issued as necessary.” HOWEVER, state chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Reverend Joseph Hayab, has canvassed self-defence, telling Governor Nasir El-Rufai to “immediately admit that he can no longer secure the state, and allow the citizens to defend themselves against the high level of insecurity.” In a statement titled, “When will the killings of innocent people in Kaduna stop?” the cleric said:  “CAN is sad and grieving following the continued killings, kidnappings, banditry, and the unimaginable evil going on in our state without any substantial action by the government and security forces.” He continued: “One only needs to see how human beings are killed and roasted by bandits, who attacked Kagoro, to conclude that this is one loss too many. How long will this evil continue and when will our leaders act dutifully?” “Kaduna State citizens are tired of government’s rhetorical responses without concrete action taken to protect lives and property. “Accordingly, we want to hear and see the killers and kidnappers arrested as the government’s usual media condemnation whenever there is havoc is not good enough.” Hayab advised:  “Meanwhile, we appeal to citizens to also wake up and do the needful, protecting their lives and community. When a government fails to protect you, you ought to find a means of defending yourself.”