• FIFA clarifies stance on home, away games Nigeria must do everything possible to beat Ghana outright to qualify and avoid falling into the away goal rule trap, former international midfielder, Etim Esin, has said. Esin, who reminded the Super Eagles that the away goal rule, which has been abolished in Europe, still applies to FIFA competitions, said it would be disastrous for the country to fail to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup after coming this close. FIFA recently revealed that the away goals tiebreaker, which has been abolished by European body (UEFA) for its club competitions in 2021 to 22, is still in effect as decider in FIFA World Cup qualifying, including all two-leg playoffs around the world. In FIFA’s official World Cup qualifying rulebook, article 20.10, page 29 accounts for the scenario when two-leg series are tied on aggregate goals at the end of the second match. And it reiterates the use of away goals as the first tiebreaker. The FIFA article states that, “if both teams score the same number of goals over the two matches, the goals scored away shall be counted as double.” It added, “If both teams have scored the same number of away goals, the game will go extra time (two periods of 15 minutes) and, if necessary, a penalty-kick shootout comes into play. “Also holding true to the away goals rule, any goals scored by the away team in extra time will give the team edge over the host team.” The implication, according to FIFA, is that the extra time of the game is an integral part of the second leg match and when both teams score the same number of goals in extra time, the visiting team is declared the winner on the basis of away goals counting double. To Esin, this clarification by FIFA means that the Super Eagles are condemned to beat Ghana by any margin possible, adding that the result of the first leg has given Nigeria 100 per cent advantage over Ghana. “The Eagles will beat Ghana to book the World Cup ticket. The players understand the importance of the game and, therefore, will go all out for victory. “Getting the World Cup ticket means a lot for the development of football in the country and Nigerians need to come out to support the team,” he said. 