Governors of the 36 states have met with their Attorney-General on the $419 million London Paris Club refunds litigations and other burning issues. Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State chief executive, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who made the disclosure, yesterday, stated: “The fallout from the London Paris Club refunds culminating in the criminal bid to deprive states of $419 million is crucial in the agenda of the meeting.” The governors also listed the contentious autonomy for judiciary and legislature and insecurity as some other issues that deserve serious attention. The rest are the administration of the criminal justice system, stamp duties and Value Added Tax (VAT). In his remarks, Fayemi noted: “As you well know, often in our meetings, there are agenda items, usually national issue,  which would greatly impact states and require our attention as governors. Some of them are sufficiently contentious as to require resolution in court. “We have a number of these cases and there is a need to carry you along and seek your input. This is one of the reasons for this gathering and some of the lawyers handling these cases will be here to address you.” Itemising the issues, he said: “You are all aware of the controversy occasioned by the question of the autonomy of the judiciary and legislature. The Forum has often been in support of autonomy, but we felt that the onus was on the states to determine and implement it.  It is, therefore, expedient that as chief law officers, you exercise the right to review and monitor the extent of implementation in your states.” Represented by Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, the NGF chairman added: “The spate of insecurity across many states, political and economic uncertainties in the country and the states have placed the office of the Attorney-General on red alert in ensuring that the state is not ambushed through frivolous cases/court orders that may lead to heavy financial losses and grounding of government business.”