 Microlinks Photo BetterLength Sew-ins are coming back in style, and microlinks are following closely behind.   Unlike frontals & sew-ins, microlinks are a more natural, lightweight and brainless alternative. This protective style that’s becoming even more popular in the natural hair community adds length and fulness to your hair. While many hair stylists can do wigs and weaves, microlinks are a more specific style that requires training. Thinking of getting microlinks installed, here’s everything to know about microlinks and caring for them. What Are Microlinks? This hairstyle involves attaching individual hair extensions to small sections of your natural hair using small silicon or metal beads. With this hairstyle, you get an instant hairdo every day without having to sit long hours multiple times for a weave sew-in or frontal installation. Microlinks Black hair Photo Un-ruly Installing These Extensions A microlink install includes a pre-tipped keratin I-tip hair strand weighing between 0.7g to 1g; this strand is then attached to a tiny cluster of hair through the metal bead clamped tight with a small clamping tool. The installation process could take between four to six hours. The hairstylist starts by first parting your hair into small sections before applying the extensions. However, while the common way to install this style is to use small extensions, your hairstylist can also use a track. While this is the typical process for installing micro links, the process could vary depending on your needs, the desired length and volume. With the increased popularity of this hairstyle, it has become easier to find extensions that match your hair. Asides from straight, wavy hair, you can also find curly and kinky extensions to match your hair type. Caring For Your Micro links While microlinks are a great way to rock your hair extensions, they are definitely not low maintenance. To care for straight, wavy textures, brush twice again to reduce tangles, while curly and kinky textures might need some other products and a little water to detangle properly. To wash your hair correctly, be sure to section your hair in parts and work the shampoo in. But maybe leave the circular motions aside instead scrub your scalp horizontally along each partition used to install the links. Make sure to remove the product buildup and work the shampoo into the extension in an up-down motion. Follow the same process for conditioning. Remember to use only products that are sulfate, alcohol and paraben-free. Before you sleep, braid or plop your hair into a messy bonnet and put on a satin scarf or bonnet to retain your hair’s quality and prevent tangles.  