UK denies suspending visa applications for Nigerians
As the Russia- Ukraine war, yesterday, entered its 21st day, the Ukrainian government lauded Nigeria for condemning and voting against the invasion at the recently held United Nations General Assembly. The Defence Attaché at the Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria, Colonel Andrii Vasyliev, who spoke to The Guardian yesterday, stated that his government and people were happy with Nigeria and other countries that voted in her support at the global event. According to Vasyliev, the votes have enabled Ukraine to distinguish between its friends and foes. He stated that the war  “is a cynical invasion and the Russian Armed Forces have been using very vile tactics, breaking all rules and committing grave breaches of international humanitarian law since February 21.” The envoy continued: “Thousands of civilians have been killed by Russian missiles and artillery, thousands of homes have been destroyed, schools and hospitals have also been destroyed. These are the basic arguments for the whole world to stop Russian aggression in Ukraine.” Noting that the aggression was a war against the entire world, democracy, fundamental human rights and peace in the world, Vasyliev insisted that Ukrainians would continue to demonstrate courage in defending their motherland and democratic values. He, therefore, called on the international community to keep pressure on Russia till the crisis ends to save innocent civilians who have been victims. MEANWHILE, the British high Commission in Nigeria has denied suspending visa applications for Nigerians seeking to travel to the European country It had issued a statement on March 15 titled “temporary suspension of priority visas for student work and family applications.” But another yesterday by the British Deputy High Commission, yesterday, said it was aware of reports circulating online that the UK had suspended student, work and family visas for Nigerian applicants. It stated:  “This is not true. It is still possible to apply for any category of UK visa in the usual way on gov.uk and via our Visa Applications Centres (VAC) in Nigeria. It read: “Our VACs remain open and customers are welcome to apply for a standard visa of any category in the usual manner, this includes student, family, work and visit visas. “However, due to a reprioritisation of resources in response to the humanitarian crisis arising from the invasion of Ukraine, the UK has temporarily suspended its priority visa service. The temporary suspension, according to the statement only applies to the UKVI’s expedited, added-value ‘Priority’ and ‘Super Priority’ visa services, adding that the suspension is to enable the UK’s global visa operation to prioritise applications for the new Ukraine Family Scheme.