Seemingly intractable power crisis rocking the country opened a new chapter the other day with the complete collapse of the national grid. The embarrassing development is coming at a time of spike in the cost of diesel and scarcity of petrol, to further compound the woes of all Nigerians. While relevant stakeholders are not in short supply of excuses for total blackout, the turn of event verges on institutional incompetence and regulatory negligence. According to reports, the national grid that had remained epileptic with a meagre 2,000 megawatts of electricity finally collapsed the other day, leaving the grid devoid of output. The power generating companies (GenCos) had confirmed that 14 power stations were idle due to grid-related challenges and the inability of the government to pay for generated electricity. While the issue was still making waves, the national grid reportedly crashed, sending the 11 distribution companies, which supply the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) out of supply. 
  
Incomprehensibly, the problem of power has remained intransigent to the huge investments sunk into the sector in the last two decades. It is shocking that instead of an improvement, the situation has continued to get worse. Since 2013 when the sector was privatised, the grid has cumulatively failed electricity consumers more than 130 times! On each occasion, the incidents practically grounded Nigeria and its economic activities. It is not surprising, therefore, that the economy is on a nosedive and companies are shutting down. The latest in the series of power failures might count among the worst the country has witnessed in recent times, indicating that there is still no stable framework for managing Nigeria’s power sector.
  
The Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), the umbrella body of distribution companies, blamed the recurrent power collapse on the Transmission Company of Nigeria’s (TCN) analog system, describing it as largely responsible for collapses since the privatisation of the power sector in 2013. The TCN, a government agency that manages the asset under the privatised power sector, had in turn attributed the grid collapse to “multiple tripping”. There are also insinuations that the problem lies with leadership at various levels that are averse to genuine solutions. The saboteurs use their positions to stifle any idea that could lead to a change!  