The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Aguata Local Government Area has paid an official visit to the new Deputy National Organizing Secretary, Nze Chidi Duru in Abuja and expressed confidence in his capacity to add tangible value as a member of the National Working Committee (NWC). Duru, a lawyer, ex-lawmaker and hospitality and tourism entrepreneur, was elected as Deputy National Organizing Secretary of the ruling party during its Convention on Saturday March 26, 2022 at the Eagle Square Abuja. He also became an automatic member of the NWC by virtue of the APC Constitution amendment, which re-designated and restricted NWC membership to 25 national leaders, including the Deputy National Organizing Secretary. The NWC has already held its inaugural meeting at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday, March 30, 2022 with Nze Duru also in attendance. Reacting to the development, the chairman of the APC in Aguata LGA, Hon Godson Anyadike and the Secretary, Comrade Obi Ogonna who had, on behalf of other executive members, congratulated Duru for winning the Deputy National Organising Secretary slot, said there is no doubt regarding his capacity to deliver on the new mandate. Nze Duru, who is also the founder of Acharaugo Foundation and a former member of the House of Representatives, works with Suleiman Muhammad as the National Organizing Secretary. According to Anyadike, “the firmament was very clear for Nze Chidi Duru as many delegates from Anambra were very optimistic about him. Nze Duru has always been a loyal party man, diligent in whatever is entrusted in his care and above all a patriotic citizen of Anambra State and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The APC has in him, an extraordinary philanthropist, who believes in justice and equity and is ready to give his all in the service of APC and  Nigeria at large.” “As a resilient lawyer, lawmaker and entrepreneur in the hospitality and tourism industry, there is no doubt that his new role as a member of the APC NWC and Deputy National Organizing Secretary paints an eloquent picture of a round peg in a round hole,” Anyadike said. Comrade Ogonna, who is the Secretary of APC in Aguata said: ‘‘Duru’s emergence is an opportunity whose time has come especially as it concerns National Politics of development and good conscience. “Nze Duru has a good heart which has enabled him to attain enviable heights.” Nze Duru, in his response, thanked the Chairman, Secretary and other LG/Ward Executives for standing by him through the thick and thin, especially during the National Convention and the processes leading to it. “This is not a winner-takes-all scenario; it’s a call to duty, to do what is good for the party and good for Nigeria. We must all work hard for the task of keeping our great party in power come 2023,” Duru told the delegation. “I have absolute confidence in what you are doing at the Local state and local government levels,” he concluded.