Download logo Building capacities among local counterparts is something United Nations Police (UNPOL) officers in South Sudan are passionate about.  In Cuiebet, Lakes state, some 50 police officers from the South Sudan National Police Service (SSNPS) recently attended two workshops facilitated by UNPOL officers serving with the United Nations Mission in Sudan (UNMISS). At the first interactive forum, participating officers were introduced to the constitutional framework for policing; their roles and responsibilities in upholding human rights, including the rights of women and children; as well as the tasks that fall directly within the remit of the police in a post-conflict society. Spirited discussions took place during the training sessions, especially about proper handling of cases related to sexual or gender-based violence, and debates on the custody and care of prisoners. “As a police officer in charge of managing a cell, I believe it’s part of my duties to protect prisoners in custody,” said Elizabeth Achol from the SSNPS. “A critical need I’d like to highlight here is more women officers who can be the primary law enforcement focal points for female prisoners. On the same note, we also require a separate building for female inmates,” she added. These and other operational issues that need to be addressed were spoken about in great detail. “Our goal as workshop facilitators was to equip every participant with basic human rights and rule of law principles,” said Moses Perez Ojok, a Training and Sensitization Officer with the UN Peacekeeping mission. “The free and frank discussions after every session were heartening because they demonstrated the involvement of every officer with these important topics,” he added. The second workshop revolved around community engagement as a necessary tool to bolster crime prevention and build productive relationships between citizens and law enforcement personnel. “Our job is to serve and protect the people of Cuiebet,” said Lieutenant Simon Arop Machar from the SSNPS. “Such workshops are very useful for us because they teach us to function within internationally accepted policing standards. A strong and ethical police service is the bedrock of democracy, and we hope that UNMISS will continue to build our capacities so that we, as South Sudanese police officers, can discharge our responsibilities and uphold human rights.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).