…as Jonathan, Wike celebrate Zilly-Aggrey at 60 Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said the people of Bayelsa and Rivers states are one and called for more collaboration to foster peace, unity and development. Chief Press Secretary to the Bayelsa State Governor, Daniel Alabrah, in a statement, said Diri  spoke on Sunday in Port Harcourt at the thanksgiving service marking the 60th birthday celebration of Apostle David Zilly-Aggrey. The service, which attracted former President Goodluck Jonathan and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, coincided with the cleric’s 29th wedding anniversary. Diri said: “The people of Bayelsa and Rivers are brothers and sisters. Bayelsa was created as a result of administrative convenience to fast-track development. “We do not need to carry arms against each other. We need to collaborate to bring development very fast to our people.” The Bayelsa helmsman said as political activities begin to gather momentum ahead of the country’s 2023 elections, the only place to seek political power was in the house of God rather than resort to carrying arms against one another. He urged Christians not to shy away from politics but actively participate in order to sanitise the system and engender overall development. He described Zilly-Aggrey as a man of many parts, who has used his ministry to make a difference in the lives of people by changing their mindset towards the service of God.
 
Jonathan, speaking through a virtual message at the service, said Zilly-Aggrey’s life had been a blessing to the body of Christ. Jonathan noted that over the years, the clergyman had worked hard and recorded tremendous successes in the vineyard of God, reconciling man with God. “You have continued to use the pulpit to reconcile man back to God. You have brought peace and unity among people,” he said. Congratulating him on his twin celebrations, the former president prayed God to continue to sustain him in the path of truth, righteousness and grace just as he wished him more years of marital bliss. Wike, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Emeka Woke, congratulated Zilly-Aggrey on his celebrations. He described the cleric as an inspirational and great man of God whose contributions in the service of the Lord has brought countless souls unto salvation and prayed God to continually bless and prosper his ministry. Responding, Zilly-Aggrey expressed gratitude to God for preserving him and his family over the years, saying God had delivered him from death severally.