The Otileta Ruling House of Owu Kingdom in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, whose turn it is to produce the next Olowu of Owu, has nominated an Archbishop of Methodist Church of Nigeria, Riye Diocese, Dr. Adegbemi Atanda Adewale and six others for consideration as the next Olowu of Owu. The presentation of the candidates was sequel to the screening of 12 princes. They were chosen from five compounds that make up the Otileta Ruling House. They included Princes Adegbemi Adewale, a Methodist Bishop from Ile Aderinoye; Adelani Oladimeji (Ile Omoleefon); Matemilola Adelola (Ile Soke) and Olatidoye Olaniyi from Ile Soke. Others were Princes Adeyanju Bakinson (Ile Otopo); Simeon Soyele (Ile Lumosa) and Adesina Adelani (Ile Soke). Though no voting was done during the screening by delegates, it was gathered that scores were awarded based on performances of each of the candidates, at the screening and interview sessions. According to the results sheet, Prince Adegbemi Adewale, a doctorate degree holder, came first with 1,027 points; Prince Adelani Oladimeji, scored 909 points; Matemilola Adelola got 886 points, while Prince Olatidoye Olaniyi scored 863 points. Aso, Prince Adeyanju Bakinson got 862 points; Simeon Soyele, 827 points and Adesina Adelani, 801 points. The Olowu stool became vacant, following the demise of the Oba Adegboyega Dosumu, who died on December 12, 2021. Prior to the screening, the Abeokuta North Local Council, in a public notice, entitled:  “ Filing of Vacant Stool of Olowu of Owu, Abeokuta” and signed by the Secretary to the Local Council, Odusiji Kabiru Ayinla, directed the Otileta Ruling House to convene a meeting within 14 days. The Notice rea: “The appointment process of filing the vacant stool has begun in line with the directive of the State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta in its Letter Reference Number CHM1/4T2/241 dated February 21, 2022 and the Provisions of Chiefs Law of Ogun State 2021 and it is the turn of Otileta Ruling House to produce candidate or candidates to fill the vacant stool in accordance with the Registered Declaration of Olowu of Owu.”