If Mr. Umo Eno becomes Akwa Ibom State governor on May 29, 2023, political scientists and lexicographers will have an urgent need to coin a word or phrase that will appropriately define the type of government he would be leading. Though the dreamed government is being incubated with some elements of oligarchy, theocracy and feudalism, it cannot truly be called any one of the above or any other known type of government in government or politics-related textbooks. Akwa Ibom governor Udom and Umo Eno  Eno, who occupies the office of the Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources since January last year, has neither discreetly nor openly planned to run for an elective post, let alone the coveted post of the governor. His choice, as mentioned again and again by the governor, is the voice of God. But the spying eyes of the public saw Udom’s family led by Gabriel Nkanang, his elder brother and sage of the family, playing a major role in getting Eno to be anointed by an apostle who is diversifying from the impecunious ministry of winning souls for Christ to money-spinning venture of elevating people to pinnacle of political power.
 
Octogenarian Attah, who publicly mentioned in 2015 that he had quitted politics, might have been propelled by one of or all of these three factors: forces of the prophecies, allurement of sitting in prestigious Governor’s Lodge built by the administration of Godswill Akpabio and the need to engage in final onslaught to install a successor, which he has been complaining of not having following his failure to install his son-in-law in 2007 and others thereafter.  Over 50 persons, including Akpabio, dared, hence Attah’s attempt to extend his reign through his son-in-law was forestalled for life and that enhanced Akpabio to preside over the affairs of Akwa Ibom without indulging a godfather even for a second in his eight-year tenure. Provided there will be at least a modicum of democracy, which is very likely, Akan, Akpan, Udo, Bassey, Udom, Ita, Ini, Okon, Esin, Uko, Aniekan or anyone with such name can do it in the 2023 elections. After all, though still lingering in our memories, feudalism, oligarchy and their likes had since died and buried in the archaic. 
 
It is curious that Eno, whose name means, gift, is not gifted with anointing to take his All Nations Christian Ministry International to some Asian countries in order to convert the Buddhist, the Hindus and the Confucian to Christianity. Better still, why is he not going to Rome to slug it out with the Pope for the leadership of the Vatican City, since his Christian faith will automatically disqualify him from going for the headship of Saudi Arabia, Iran and a few other countries that reserve their theocratic throne exclusively for Islamic faithful of those nations? Ekanem sent this piece from Lagos. 