Presidential candidate to emerge at National Convention on May 31
To seal Mega Electoral Alliance for 2023 Elections on June 12 The council of Third Force mega Political Movement, yesterday, released its timetable for the 2023 elections with the aim of defeating both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement, yesterday, the movement noted that state implementation and harmonisation committees for the 36 states and the FCT will take place on April 2 and joint public declaration and unveiling of the third force mega party at a National Colloquium in Abuja, by all fused partners and stakeholders on April 4. The statement added that the inauguration of state implementation and harmonisation committees in Abuja will hold on April 5, and the release of the list of members of the planning committees of the national convention, primaries, state congresses and guidelines for congresses, primaries and national convention will hold same day. Also, collection of expression of intention and nomination forms for intending party executive officers at all levels will begin on April 5, while state harmonisation and fusion of partners and stakeholders at the local government areas and wards nationwide by State implementation and harmonisation committees will hold from April 6 to 11, 2022. The statement also noted that collection of expression of intention and nomination forms for aspiring party candidates for the 2023 elections will start on April 12, and submission of expression of intention and nomination forms for intending party officers at all levels will take place on April 14. “ There will be screening of all intending party officers at the state and national levels on April 19 to 21; state congresses nationwide are to elect/affirm state executive officers nationwide on April 22 and 23.
“Sitting of appeal committees nationwide over any formal disputes in the state congresses will hold from April 24 to 29, while Labour Day Anniversary activities and programme (compulsory for all party stakeholders to attend) will hold on April 30 and May 1. “Local government areas and wards congresses are expected to elect LGAs and wards officers nationwide at various designated venues on May 6 to 7. The statement adds that there will be sitting of appeal committees over any formal disputes arising from LGAs and wards congresses at various designated centres on May 9 to 13, while the final date for the submission of expression of intention and nomination forms of all aspiring party candidates for the 2023 Elections in Abuja on May 14. “Screening of aspirants for governorship, senate, members of house of representatives and members of state houses of assembly positions will hold on May 16 to 19, while state primaries are to elect party candidates for the positions of state governors, senators, members of house of reps and members of state house of assembly nationwide on May 20 to 21, the statement said. It also revealed that sitting of appeal committees over formal disputes in the primaries for the elections of party candidates for state governors, Senate, House of Representatives and State Houses of Sssembly will hold on may 23 to 25, while the screening of intending national executive officers and presidential aspirants in Abuja will hold from May 24 to 27. National Convention and presidential primaries to elect party national executive officers and the presidential candidate of the third force will hold on may 31, while the sitting of the appeal committee over any formal disputes arising from elections at the national convention and primaries of the presidential candidate will hold on june 2 and 3. “From June 5 to 12 Mega Electoral Alliance talks and consummation with like-minded allied political parties based on adoption of consensus candidates and joint campaigns teams at all levels for a formidable Third Force in the 2023 Elections will take place.”