The Shippers Association of Lagos State (SALS) has commended Mr Emmanuel Jime, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), for toeing the path of dialogue in tackling maritime issues. The SALS President, Rev. Jonathan Nicole, made the commendation in a statement made available to newsmen on Saturday in Lagos. Nicole noted that there had been a subtle but effective response to the needs of shippers, importers and exporters in Nigeria with the advent of Jime as the council’s chief executive. “Nigerian Shippers’ Council of recent is saddled with huge traffic of unrest and it is therefore the duty of a man who has the vision to curtail such unrests in the polarised system with regular agitations. “After the meeting with freight forwarders about the current Vehicle Identification Number regime, we are aware that the executive secretary has been consulting with the Nigeria Customs Service to ease up the tension and possibly stop the industrial unrest. “And the best method of eliminating constant negative agitations is through effective dialogue, which Jime has imbibed,” Nicole said. He noted that Jime was also consulting with the Shipping Lines and Terminal Operators to achieve cordial working relationships with major stakeholders. Nichole said that the association had affirmed its resolve to support Jime and advice him when necessary to fashion the part of peaceful co-existence within the enviable maritime industry where things happen. “Where else can two trillion Naira be generate outside oil and gas from one government agency other than the maritime industry,” he asked. The SALS president, therefore, urged government to help their administrators by introducing a workable economic policy that would be respected and obeyed by all practitioners. “In addition, government should always bridge the gap of disseminating information between the users of port facilities and their agencies. “Shippers/importers have been the builders and users of Nigerian ports for more than four centuries. “Shippers have not had it as bad as it is now with ridiculous taxes and demands, as if they are enemies of the maritime society. What brings the huge crowd is the cargo,” he said. Nicole noted that the Nigerian Shippers’ Council was established to protect the cargo owners, adding that it would be a huge victory if there was no division among the federated stakeholders for better understanding. “The huge amount of clearing expenses is beginning to force cargo owners to complain. They are respectable investors and should be given the honour. “Jime is taking his step one after another in a calculated manner. In this way, the wheat will be sorted from the chaff. We envisage a major change in the system for the better. “He should be focused and bring his primary partner closer than ever. “With the support and cooperation of shippers, the freight forwarders will listen to their clients and an alliance for greater maritime sector will be born,” he added. 