 Recommending the one you care about for therapy helps | Photo Getty Stress, anxiety, mood swings and a boatload of emotions are just a few signs that you need to book a therapy appointment.   Frankly, we all experience these signs at some point in our lives, and in some cases, we bounce back to our original selves. However, we might need some help getting back on our feet at other times. The only way to know if you need help is to pay close attention to your mental well-being to notice signs that you might need some help. These eights signs should help you figure out if you need therapy ASAP: If you notice that you have a shorter temper tha usual, then you might need therapy. Getting angry quickly over little things eventually affects your mood, relationship and even your productivity. Uncontrolled anger could reflect stress, frustration and other negative feelings. Focusing on how you react to everyday stressors would help you determine if therapy is the right fit for you. Another common sign of dwindling mental health is reduced productivity levels. The stress you’re going through could affect your attention, memory and how much you commit to getting the work done. It could also cause you to make mistakes and errors which could have been avoided and may cause harm to not just you but others as well. Therapy could help you find better ways to manage your stress levels. If you have a history of any form of abuse, talking about it is a great way to deal with it. By speaking to a therapist about your trauma, you would get some ideas on how to deal with your experience and new techniques to break the hold this trauma holds over you. Dealing with loss is a sure sign that you need to talk to someone. You would need someone to go through the five stages of grief with, and there’s no one more trustworthy to share this experience with than your therapist. Losing interest in activities that used to excite you could signify depression and anxiety, and speaking to a therapist would help with dealing with this. Unhealthy habits might not be drugs or drinking, it could also include excessive shopping, over eating and other risky habits. Whichever it is, it’s time for an appointment. Falling out with family, friends and having difficulty maintaining relationships is another sign to look out for. Therapy is a great way to deal with some stuff you might be going through. Find a great therapist through recommendations and speak to them honestly.  