As Friends of Wike presents nomination form to him Rivers State Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has said he is fully prepared for the assignment of being President of Nigeria because he has the capacity to address lingering issues of insecurity and a poor national economy. He maintained Nigerians could no longer resign to fate, suffer the pains of a harsh economy and wanton killings under the watch of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government. Wike made the remarks, yesterday, when a group, the Northern Progressives Elements and Friends of Wike, in Abuja, purchased and presented to him Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The governor said it was time to save the country from the intractable lies of the APC-led Federal Government. He stressed that both Nigerians and PDP do not need persons that would chicken out when intimidated by APC in the build-up to the elections. According to him, “They have tried it with me. They know that they can never succeed. They did it in Rivers State. We said no! It will never work! And it didn’t work. If you give us the ticket, go home and sleep.” Wike pointed to how APC failed woefully in addressing the economic concerns of Nigerians. According to him, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) boasts of how much it is spending to boost agriculture without visible impact and availability of food. He asked: “Where is the food? If you have invested in agriculture, we should be seeing the result. Instead of people eating, people are dying every day. Who are they deceiving? “We took the oath of office to protect life and property. If we cannot protect life and property, there is no governance. “You’re talking about food, agriculture… How can you talk about agriculture when people cannot go to the farm? How can you talk of improving the economy when investors have lost confidence in the country?” The Rivers State governor said God has given him wisdom and good health, and that it is time to utilise them to wrest power from APC and tackle the numerous challenges facing the country. He noted: “It is a task that is surmountable with commitment and passion. By the special grace of God, with your support, we shall surmount the problems facing Nigeria. “Let me tell PDP people, just like the former deputy national chairman said, we cannot just stay at home and be praying to God to dash our power, no. God has given us the capacity. We must use that capacity and take over the power.” Wike thanked the Northern Progressives Elements and Friends of Wike for presenting him with the forms and calling on him to contribute his quota to salvaging the country. He assured me that with their help, he would do his best possible in redeeming Nigeria. Senator Sulieman Nazif, who presented the forms to Wike, on behalf of the Northern Progressives Elements, explained that they decided to pool resources together to purchase the forms because of their belief in the governor’s love for the country. He said: “Nigerians are in dire need of a leader that can show courage, a leader that can take them to the Promised Land. And that leader is none another person other than Governor Nyesom Wike. “As we present to you these forms, we will be by you. Wherever you stand, you will find all of us around you, so that you can seize and collect that power, and bring that power back to the PDP.” Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde thanked all who contributed their resources to purchase the forms. He maintained that Nigeria, at this point, needs a leader that is energetic, not people that are tired and lack the ability to salvage the country. He said: “If you look at places around the world, energy and drive is something that you cannot wish away. He is also of the right age. And in terms of intellect and commitment to a united, progressive Nigeria, he is also there. So, we are moving in the right direction. On his part, former Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, commended the group for the gesture, declaring: “Nigeria is on the verge of a return to a new Nigeria.” 