The National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has stated that he is the most qualified to become the next president of Nigeria, declaring that the country would compete favourably with a country like Russia in the exploration of oil and gas under his watch if elected. According to him, the country is blessed with abundant natural resources that are yet to be explored to enable it to be ranked among best economies in the world. Tinubu stated this yesterday in Okitipupa, the headquarters of Okitipupa Local Council of Ondo State, where he consulted traditional rulers in the southern district on his presidential ambition. He was received by prominent traditional rulers, APC bigwigs, party members and political groups like the South West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA) and Tinubu Support Group (TSO). He noted that if Nigeria could generate stable electricity, it would be able to compete optimally with other developed nations in manufacturing. Tinubu, who informed he was in the state to seek the blessings of the royal fathers over his presidential ambition, said he knew the problems of the country, noting that if given the opportunity, Nigeria would be ranked among the best countries in the world. The former Lagos State governor noted that religious and ethnic divisions were part of the problems confronting the country, adding that Lagos State has been thriving because there was no division. “Lagos State was the worst state in Africa when I became governor. We generated meagre revenue then, but we did our best then. But look at Lagos now, it generates over N40 billion in revenue. “Division is one of the problems in Nigeria too but there is no division in Lagos because any tribe or religion is welcome, as they can contest and win elections, and that is why Lagos is thriving. “Nigeria has the potential to compete with Russia in oil and gas exploration, if we harness our resources properly; and if there is stable electricity, Nigeria will also compete with other nations in manufacturing. “I am here to seek the blessing of our royal fathers for my presidential ambition, because I know where the problems are and if given the opportunity in 2023, Nigeria will be ranked among the best nations in the world. “I am imploring all eligible voters to get their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) revalidated for them to exercise their civic responsibilities,” Tinubu said. While addressing the monarchs at the palace of Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, Tinubu said that President Muhammadu Buhari gave him his consent to contest the 2023 presidential election. “Truly, I want to take the Presidency; it is not a boast. It is true that I want to take it home for the development of the people. I have gone to inform Buhari that I want to contest, particularly that it is remaining few months for him. Buhari told me to go ahead and declare. “I informed Buhari so that people would not say who did I inform before taking the decision. I’m the most qualified to become the president. I will ensure that our children get employed; there will be industries and all round development across the country,” he added. Contrary to insinuations from some quarters that he was not medically fit to be President, Tinubu noted: “I went for knee surgery and people were saying I was sick. I didn’t say I want to become a bricklayer or gravedigger. If it is to run, I can try my best. Inform everyone that I want to contest. I will make Nigeria to be more developed than I did in Lagos. “It is a pity that ordinary brake pad Nigeria cannot produce. I will turn Nigeria around for good. All I seek are your prayers and support for me to become the president. It is your son that wants to contest and I’m that your son.” The Olugbo of Ugboland, Oba Dr. Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, who spoke on behalf of other traditional rulers in the area, lauded the courage of the former Lagos State governor for declaring his ambition to succeed President Buhari in office. Akinruntan also said Tinubu has the charisma and ability to turn the country to a better place, adding that all the traditional rulers in Ondo South has blessed and endorsed him for the number one job. 