 The Comms Avenue (https://TheCommsAvenue.com), a capacity-building and networking platform for communications professionals across Africa and beyond, has announced the line up of mentors and mentees for the fourth batch of the Comms Mentoring Program (CMP) which will begin on Saturday 19th March.  Launched in August 2020, the CMP was created to bridge the mentoring gap between senior and younger professionals in the African communications industry. Through the previous three batches, senior communications professionals from Ghana, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Egypt and the United States have served as mentors and have dedicated their time to nurturing upcoming professionals in the industry. For the fourth batch, The Comms Avenue has taken things up a notch by doubling the impact of the CMP across the continent. After a thorough selection process, 41 mentees from Ghana, Nigeria, Eswatini, Kenya and South Africa were selected to go through the six-week mentoring program. Speaking about the fourth batch of the CMP, Adedoyin Jaiyesimi, Co-Founder of The Comms Avenue said, “We started the CMP as a pilot to see if we could create a seamless framework which senior communications professionals across the world could plug into to share their knowledge and guide younger professionals. After the success of the previous batches which includes job promotions and increased career growth for our mentees, we have set a goal to impact 100 young professionals across Africa through the CMP in 2022.” APO Group’s Founder and Chairman Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard (www.Pompigne-Mognard.com), said, “As APO Group we’re committed to advancing young and seasoned professionals within the industry by equipping them with all the necessary skills and tools to be the best version of themselves. Therefore, it’s great to see Lerato taking what she is gaining not only from APO Group, but in her own personal capacity as well, and accessing that knowledge to young professionals within the communications industry.” Senior communications professionals serving as mentors for the fourth batch of the CMP include: Godfrey Adejumoh, Corporate Communications Manager, Unilever; Henry Nii Dottey, Head of Marketing & Corporate Communications for United Bank for Africa (Ghana); Lerato Chiyangwa, Senior Account Manager, APO Group (www.APO-opa.com); Paa Kwesi Forson, Public Relations Lead, Global Media Alliance; Olayinka Edmond, Lead, Internal Communications, Mastercard Foundation; Sophia Lissah, Chief Communications Officer, Jospong Group, Corazon Mwende, Senior Communications Officer, Kenya Red Cross Society; Titilope Oguntuga, Head, Sustainable Development and Corporate Brand, Lafarge Africa Plc; amongst many other mentors from Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria. For more information about the Comms Mentoring Program, please visit: https://bit.ly/3I1zBuz For more information about APO Group, please visit: https://bit.ly/3pWYMIR Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Comms Avenue. Media Contact:
marie@apo-opa.com About The Comms Avenue:
The Comms Avenue is a capacity-building and networking platform for communications professionals across Africa and the world at large. Co-Founded by Adedoyin Jaiyesimi and Sharon-Ann Adaigbe in April 2020, The Comms Avenue currently has over 750 professionals from 15 African countries in its mission-driven professional community. It’s vision is to become a close knit and impactful community renowned for producing communications professionals with pan-African and global impact. Based on its core pillars of capacity-building and networking, The Comms Avenue puts together webinars, knowledge exchange and networking events that allow its community members to learn, upskill, collaborate, and connect with senior communications professionals and colleagues across the African continent and beyond. So far, over 80 senior professionals from organizations such as Coca-Cola, Stanbic IBTC, Kenya Electricity Generating Company, Global Media Alliance, CrossBoundary, Guinness Nigeria, Hearst UK, Meltwater, African Media Agency, First Bank of Nigeria, Mo Ibrahim Foundation, amongst other world class organizations have been engaged through its programs and events. About APO Group:
APO Group is a pan-African communications and business consultancy providing turnkey solutions that empowers companies to grow their business on the African continent. Since 2007, APO Group has utilised it’s strong relationships and knowledge of Africa to help companies flourish by communicating their stories. Our clients have developed over the years and so have we, expanding our services and creating new partnerships to better support enterprises of all sizes, including through technology services, strategic consulting and digital marketing. We’re investing in new ways to help companies and entrepreneurs communicate and thrive because APO Group is committed to African excellence. This approach enables our clients to focus on people, building their organisations, and creating jobs that fuel the future for Africa.