SWNigeria, official retailer of the world’s finest crystal jewellery line, Swarovski has extended a warm welcome to the international brand’s management team on their business visit to Nigeria for a strategic engagement to consolidate expansion plans across the country. The visit by the international Swarovski team is the first since the COVID pandemic. It marks a turning point as the brand seeks to deepen its engagement by bringing the luxury brand to more destinations across Nigeria. It will be recalled that Swarovski recently opened a store at Jabi Lake Mall, Abuja, one of the largest shopping destinations in Nigeria. Welcoming the team to Nigeria, Managing Director of PoloLuxury Group, John Obayuwana said: “We are delighted to have the global Swarovski team here in Nigeria. Swarovski is an amazing brand whose know-how not only focuses on refining crystals, but also explores methods that make the most incredible pieces attainable. We are proud to partner with the brand in creating new engagement opportunities to deepen its business possibilities here in Nigeria.” In her welcome address, Executive Director of PoloLuxury Group, Jennifer Obayuwana, stated that this visit by a strategic partner of the PoloLuxury Group reinforces the brand’s appreciation for the Nigerian market and its desire to strengthen the relationship it has with its customers. “We are excited to have the international Swarovski team here in Nigeria for this visit. We are also proud to uphold the same Swarovski experience all over the world, as we strengthen the brand’s global expansion plans demonstrated by the recent opening of the SWNigeria store in Jabi Lake Mall, Abuja”, she added. Speaking during the visit, Sales Trainer and Visual Merchandiser, Sub-Saharan Africa, Swarovski, Jonathan Minter, thanked the PoloLuxury Group for the success of the brand in the Nigerian market. Minter said: “Swarovski is an incredibly unique brand and we have a heritage of creating jewellery pieces that are crafted using the best possible standard. Our founder’s vision of making diamonds available to every woman makes it important to us that Swarovski jewellery are gotten at an attainable price.” Speaking on the resilience of the Nigerian luxury market in spite of the pandemic, Sales Director, Sub-Saharan Africa, Swarovski, Janni Bezuidenhout, expressed his enthusiasm over the brand’s upcoming expansion plans. Bezuidenhout said: “Looking at the global demographics, Nigeria is very unique, considering it is the only market that expanded in the past two years regardless of the effects of the pandemic on the luxury market world-wide. The standards of the boutiques in Nigeria are immensely high and we anticipate more exciting news in the coming months.” SWNigeria is home to a wide range of crystal jewellery, accessories and decorative crystal pieces, including the iconic Lucent collection inspired by the maison’s love for innovative creativity. At the core of the shopping experience is the outstanding service of SWNigeria’s in-store experts who help each client in discovering new products, curating new looks and exploring product ranges. Within this carefully curated space, customers can create their own unique sparkle. SWNigeria offers the world’s finest crystal jewellery, with a focus on trends, design, and meaningful branding. The brand draws from the 125-year heritage of the global Swarovski brand, which embodies creativity, exceptional quality, and expertise.