The maiden edition of Aderinokun Charity Cup competition was wrapped up in grand style during the week with Santos Sports Academy emerging winners following a 1-0 victory over Daleko FC. The competition, hosted by Olumide and Stephanie Aderinokun Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation co-founded by Ogun Central Senatorial District aspirant, Chief Olumide Aderinokun, left residents of Ifo and Ewekoro local councils in the senatorial district in a state of frenzy for the better part of the day. Twenty-four teams keenly contested the competition before Santos Sports won the title with a prize of N350,000 while Daleko FC went home with N250,000 as runners-up. The grand finale took place at NUD Primary School in Ifo with a huge turnout of spectators recorded. The day started with the commencement of the seventh phase of #FreeFuelwithAderinokun, which had okada riders at NPOG Filling Station and Aderinokun present to flag off the exercise. It was followed by the commissioning of a borehole project in Itesiwaju Agosi Estate in Ifo local council, which was attended by a former Commissioner of Cooperatives and Community Development in Ogun State, Prince Lekan Tejuosho; former Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and ex-chairman of Ifo local council, Aare Tunde Alabi and Director General, Ladi Adebutu Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Semiu Shodipo, among others. Thereafter, Aderinokun commissioned another borehole project in Eegun Nla Estate in Ewekoro local council. The communities expressed their gratitude to the Foundation for touching their lives with the projects. Speaking on the projects and the competition, Aderinokun assured the people of Ifo and Ewekoro local councils of his continued support, saying: “I’m pleased with the progress we are making through Olumide and Stephanie Aderinokun Foundation, which is to relieve people of the economic hardship in the country. “Unfortunately, the people have been left behind by the government because access to potable water is one of the basic amenities people should have. “The football competition was aimed at engaging youths in the two local councils and it clearly delivered its purpose, with over 400 players involved and 2000 spectators in total. “We are in talks with the community leaders for their needs and in about two weeks, we will be back to give interest-free loans to the people.” 