The Ambassador of the State of Qatar to Nigeria, Dr. Ali Ghanem Al-Hajri, has projected his country’s investment in Nigeria to hit 500 billion by the end of the year. Ghanem gave the assurance on Friday at the Qatar-Nigeria Economic Forum held in Abuja. The forum, according to the organisers is part of the efforts to strengthened economic and bilateral relationships between both countries. The gathering brought together heads of the various sectors of the economy including agriculture, construction, transportation, trade, and investment as well as services from across Nigeria and Qatar. Also at the meeting, which was held at the Congress Hall of the Transcorp Hilton Hotel where private sector operators. Ambassador of the State of Qatar to Nigeria, Dr. Ali Ghanem Al-Hajri. Photo/ARISE  “We are expecting that the Qatari Investment in Nigeria will reach N500 billion by the end of this year. He emphasized that through the forum was sponsored by Qatar Development Bank, Qataris and Nigerians will find potential opportunities to build bridges of cooperation and partnership in economic, cultural, and trade fields. “This forum plays a role in creating a platform for all participants which reflects the wise decision of the leadership of both countries to deepen bilateral relations”, the envoy stated. Friday’s event was the aftermath of the match-making event that was held in Lagos earlier in the week, bringing together Nigerian and Qatari manufacturers to deepen collaboration. Minister of State for Science, Technology, and Innovation (STI), Mohammed Abdullahi, who spoke on available opportunities for collaboration in the science and technology sector, noted that Qatar has made significant progress in the area of STI, and called for more investment in the sector. “We should have more collaboration in science and technological development, R&D, post-service agro-allied processing of food, medicals, pharmaceuticals, Nano technology, methanol industry in Nigeria and machinery for mining agriculture”, he stated. He also emphasized the need for investment in renewable energy, leather technology, vaccine development, space science technology, manufacturing, capacity building, and technology transfer. Also speaking, Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uchechukwu Oga, stressed that Nigeria is the largest economy in Africa with GDP of $514 billion and 57 per cent economically active population. He added that with over 44 minerals in commercial quantities in different locations, “Nigeria is an attractive investment destination for global investors including delegates from Qatar.” Adding: “We have open doors for more entrants into the Nigerian economy and we welcome Qatar investment as a sure way for the diversification of the Nigerian economy to create jobs for millions”, he said. He added that the government is increasing private sector investment in the mining sector with the aim of industrializing Nigeria. Manager of the Qatar Development Bank, Ali Sultan Alkuwari, who focused his remarks on the “available opportunities for economic cooperation,” noted that Qatar aims to build a diverse economy by enhancing and improving products and services that are competitive in the global market. “Our objective is to promote export development, export promotion, and match-making events like the one which recently happened in Lagos,” he said adding that Qatar provides access to finance to its exporters and supports service companies in their collaboration with their counterparts in Nigeria. Other dignitaries that graced the event include the Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire; Minister of State for Industry Trade and Investment, Mayram Katagum as well as the Ambassador of Nigeria to Qatar, Yakubu Abdullah. 