Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, Mr. Onofiok Luke, has emphasised the need for continuity in governance, saying he is in the gubernatorial race to continue the development of the state. He spoke at the headquarters of Peoples Democratic party (PDP), during his official declaration of his intention to run for governorship position of the state in 2023. The former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly said he would build on the templates and legacies of past governors of the state since 1999. Luke, who is one of the leading governorship aspirants in Akwa Ibom State, officially consulted the leadership of the People’s Democratic Party in the state and the traditional rulers of his council, Nsit Ubium, led by HRM Nteyin Solomon Etuk, the Oku Ibom Ibibio, about his ambition. He said he had prepared for an opportunity to be the governor of the state and had carefully identified needs of different communities and would ensure that there would not be “dislocation in development” started by past leaders of the state. “I have been incubated in the leadership womb of this State for 15 years. I have interfaced with all strata of the state and her people; I know their challenges. With this exposure, I know the needs of the women, the youths and students. I have in the last 10 years carefully collated the specific needs of our communities and they have formed part of my social contract.” The National Assembly member, representing Etinan/Nsit Ibom Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency, said he was passionate about primary healthcare development and had developed a template that would guarantee accessibility and affordability of healthcare services in rural communities. While appealing for the party’s support, he said he would run an inclusive government. Receiving the aspirant at the party secretariat in Uyo, the state Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Aniekan Akpan, who served alongside Luke in the House of Assembly between 2011 and 2015 said Luke is a committed party man. “You are a founding member of the party. We know you as a committed party man. The party appreciates you.”