Download logo More than nine million children are to be vaccinated against polio in the first round of a mass campaign across four countries in Eastern and Southern Africa, after an outbreak was confirmed in Malawi.  The drive, led by governments, with the support of UNICEF and partners, was launched today in Malawi, and will be followed on Thursday with campaigns starting in neighbouring Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia. Three more rounds of vaccination will follow in the coming months, covering a total of more than twenty million children. “This is the first case of wild polio detected in Africa for more than five years and UNICEF is working closely with governments and partners to do everything possible to stop the virus in its tracks,” says Mohamed M. Fall, UNICEF Regional Director for Eastern and Southern Africa. “Polio spreads fast and can kill or cause permanent paralysis.” UNICEF, the World Health Organization and other partners of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative are supporting governments with the urgent drive, after it was confirmed last month that a three-year-old girl was paralysed by wild poliovirus in Lilongwe in Malawi. People most commonly contract polio when they drink water that is contaminated with the faeces of someone who carries the virus. Children under the age of five and those living in areas with poor sanitation are most at risk. “A regional response is vital as polio is extremely contagious and can spread easily as people move across borders,” says Mohamed M. Fall. “There is no cure for polio, but the vaccine protects children for life. We are working with the World Health Organization and other partners to make sure parents, as well as community and religious leaders, know how important it is that every child receives their vaccine.” UNICEF has procured more than 36 million doses of polio vaccine for the first two rounds of immunisations of children in Malawi, Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia and is helping to prepare the following response: Distributed by APO Group on behalf of UNICEF Eastern and Southern Africa.