A section of Nigerians, yesterday, took a swipe at the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, accusing it of failing to provide quality leadership amid worsening economic and security challenges. The criticisms came as the President, yesterday, summoned Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma, Minister of Power Abubakar Aliyu and Chief Economic Adviser Doyin Salami to a meeting at the Presidential Villa. It will be recalled that the President pledged to review the security situation in South East. His resolve followed the disturbing spate of violence in Imo State, especially destruction of police assets and home of Prof. George Obiozor, President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Briefing newsmen, later, Uzodimma confirmed that the meeting was “about insecurity in the South East and what is required to ensure that it is properly controlled.” He said: (Buhari) took seriously my recommendations. And indeed, I tell you, he immediately gave approval, which includes increase in manpower of security agencies and logistics supports ranging from additional arms to ammunition. “Also, we are making use of our local vigilante and the involvement of community leaders to ensure that through community arrangements, additional security is provided to the people.” BUT Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) expressed disappointment over government’s efforts at tackling insecurity. In a statement, by National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, the group said unending bloodbath in Kaduna State is an obvious sign of descent into anarchy. It said: “The recurring and unending horrific crimes committed in Kaduna under the watch of numerous security agents is indicting of the service chiefs. The attacks also justify the comments of Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan Kukah, on December 25, 2021 that Buhari and his government must move quickly ‘before Arewa, our beloved Arewa, descends into Arewanistan!’ “Indeed, Kaduna and the entire northern Nigeria is becoming another gulag of bloodbath like Afghanistan.” ALSO, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), South West zone, yesterday, charged Buhari to pay more attention to governance and education rather than politicking. The Coordinator, NANS South West, Emmanuel Olatunji Adegboye, disclosed this in a statement in Ibadan. NANS noted: “The nation is plunged into darkness due to the collapse of the national grid, while fuel and diesel prices are making business owners shut down. This should call for serious concern. “Our members in polytechnics and colleges of education are not finding it easy, as the cost of living has increased as an implication of these. Learning has become more difficult without power supply. The mess must be cleared now!” The group added: “Once again, we are making a statement to reaffirm our commitment to seeing an end to the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “As President Muhammadu Buhari returned to the country on Sunday, all Nigerian students hope that he would give the education sector the maximum attention needed to bring an end to this prolonged strike.” SIMILARLY, presidential hopeful and former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, regretted that the country has been on a downward trend. At a press conference in Kano, yesterday, the African Democratic Party (ADP) aspirant warned: “By the year 2023, if Nigeria fails to elect a competent person to do the job, the economic and inflation rate of the country would be worse. The job requirements of a leader include nation building, meaningful management of diversity. Our institutions are being destroyed and we must hold the President accountable.” 