• Commuters groan, traders count losses as FG closes bridge 
• Orders  illegal occupants to vacate within seven days It was a black Wednesday for Lagos traders, who woke up to see their goods under Eko bridge near the popular Apongbon Market in Lagos Island in ashes, being the result of an early morning inferno. Burnt container under Eko bridge Fire under the bridge Rescuers at the scene of the fire  “l could not pick an item. I am really devastated and confused. We see street urchins (area boys ) on the ground having a field day,  stealing and looting goods, and pretending to be salvaging the items. Government should quickly intervene,” he lamented.
 
The incident grounded vehicular movement along  Lagos island to Apongbon area of Lagos, while commuters and motorists were held in traffic for several hours.
  
A commuter, Mrs. Adewunyi, said she spent four hours on the bridge.  “The authority should put a diversion notice to assist motorists on the bridge,” she said.
BUT the Lagos State Emergency Agency (LASEMA)  said efforts to put out the fire were slowed due to the buildings and makeshift shops around the area.
  
According to the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, the fire incident was reported at 03:14 am and was confronted by the first set of the crew of the agency on arrival.
    
Director of the agency, Adeseye Margaret, said the intensity of the fire badly affected Eko bridge, slowing movement along the corridor, noting that the nature of the fire was ferocious.  Abdulrahim, accompanied by the Special Adviser to the council chairman on Wealth Creation, Ajenifuye Owolaje, said officials of the council were on the ground to support efforts at extinguishing the fire.
 
A water vendor, Hamisu Awal, said he supplied cans of water for more than two hours to help in extinguishing the fire, but to no avail.
  
Also, a worker of LASEMA while taking part in the operation, collapsed and was rushed to the hospital.  “As of now, we have taken control of the whole situation, the boys (area boys) have been managed, and I just asked for more deployment of policemen,” he said.
 
The zonal coordinator also raised fears about the safety of the bridge; hence the closure for the integrity test. He said that there was no fire on top of the bridge but noted that interventions by experts were to prevent the fire from spreading to buildings or wreaking havoc. While the rescue operation was on, many could not access Lagos Island with long traffic gridlock. As a result, going into Lagos by vehicles was almost impossible with many relying on motorcycles to access and leave Lagos Island.
 
A trader in the market, Alhaji Ahmed Jide Lawal: “I got to the National Theatre at about 6:30a.m, I had to go back to Orile, before going to Costain to park my car. “No movement and the only means to get to Apongbon was through motorcycle,” he said.
 
A good number of the traders whose shops were closed to the scene of the fire incidents either closed their shops to customers or partially open without displaying their wares. Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Mr Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, said the rescue operation was slow in putting out the fire despite the long hours committed because of the inaccessibility of the fire point.
  
He said this was largely due to the various trading activities going on under the bridge, which obstructed the movement of the personnel. MEANWHILE,  the Federal Government has commenced immediate assessment of the damaged bridge.
 
The Federal Controller of Works in Lagos State, Olukayode Popoola, said that the bridge would be shut for immediate integrity test after a joint inspection to be conducted by a team of engineers from the Federal Ministry of Works and a team from Lagos State Ministry of Works, at 3.00 p.m.
 
Also, the Federal and Lagos State Government have given all occupants trading and living under bridges across Lagos to leave in seven days, else they would be forcefully evicted.  “If not for the illegal occupants, this incident would not have occurred and government cannot continue to invest in such a disaster. There is a plan to eject all illegal occupants of bridges across Nigeria, like that of Lagos,  and they have been given seven days to leave,” he added.