PDP says it has pushed APC to oblivion
The Plateau State House of Assembly yesterday declared the seat of its former Speaker, Abok Nuhu Ayuba, vacant. The House took the decision during a plenary presided over by the current Speaker, Yakubu Sanda, who represents Pengana Constituency in Bassa Local Council of the state. The decision followed a letter written by Plateau State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which urged the Speaker to declare Abok’s seat vacant following his defection from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), contrary to Section 109 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Sanda, after reading a letter written to him by Plateau APC Chairman, Mr. Rufus Bature, seeking to declare the seat vacant, immediately made the declaration. The letter read: “The party, which sponsored his election, wishes to request that, as the Speaker of the Plateau State House Assembly, you should invoke the power conferred on you by Section 109 (ii) to accordingly declare vacant the seat of Ayuba since the constitutional conditions that warrant his defection do not exist. “There is no division whatsoever in the All Progressives Congress in Plateau to enable him take benefit of the provision of Section 109 (i) g of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “The consequence of his defection without any justification is that he must vacate his seat as stipulated under section 109 (1) g of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” BESIDES, the Speaker has also declared the seat of a member representing Rukuba-Irigwe in the Assembly, Musa Agah, vacant, following his election to the National Assembly. Agah was during the February 26 by-election elected to represent Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. MEANWHILE, a member of the opposition PDP, Timothy Dantong, has said that the declaration of the former Speaker’s seat vacant is illegal. Dantong, who represents Riyom State Constituency in the House of Assembly, said that the declaration was done without fair hearing. IN another development, the PDP has said that as the party is gathering momentum in membership, it has pushed the APC into total political oblivion. The party, in a statement yesterday by its State Publicity Secretary, John Akans, stated: “The Plateau people cannot afford to walk again in the counsel of the wicked or sit in the seat of scoffers but have wisely chosen a platform that is delightful in walking in the ways of the Lord through the Peoples Democratic Party. “It is with great delight the Plateau State chapter of the PDP has again welcomed with open arms, the coming of prominent political figures and their teeming supporters into the party, particularly from the ruling APC, into the big umbrella that covers the entire Plateau State.” “Your journey from APC to PDP is not a mistake, but it is borne out of self-realisation through the illumination of your minds towards the good of Plateau citizens. “You all have taken the bold steps towards liberating yourselves and the entire Plateau people.” 