The 2023 presidential ambition of the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has received a boost with the endorsement of Nigerian youth groups. Youth support groups, under the aegis of ‘Nigerian Youths for Tinubu,’ while declaring their support for Tinubu, also pledged to purchase the presidential nomination form for the former Lagos State governor. Addressing newsmen in Lagos, the convener of the group, Idris Aregbe, said the youths were backing Tinubu because of their belief that he remains the best aspirant qualified to fulfil the people’s interests and hope, having proven himself a progressive, visionary, compassionate and detribalised leader. “Nigeria needs a trusted and reliable visionary, who feels the pain and anguish of the people and is capable of making life better for us,” Aregbe said. “I don’t think there is any as qualified as Tinubu today, and that is why we are behind him and ready to purchase the presidential nomination form for him. “Besides, this would also be a way of stamping the legitimacy of youths on the presidential election process. We shall ensure rigorous involvement of youths in the Tinubu presidency.” Aregbe noted that the former Lagos State governor laid the blueprint for infrastructure development of modern Lagos and ensured its productivity, adding that “Lagos State remains a model amongst other states owing to the golden era of development ushered in by Tinubu.” Disclosing that leaders of several support groups from the South and the Northern States have resolved to ensure mass participation in the project, Aregbe revealed that “our northern states coordinator, Farouk Jeggo Mohammed Adamu; South-East coordinator, Samuel Isechi; and South coordinator, Ahab Bourka are working out modalities to achieve our collective goal.” Explaining the rationale behind the project, one of the northern states coordinators, Miss Muherta Jatar assured that “Nigerian youths would leave nothing to chance as we begin to pull resources and roll out initiatives to ensure our bold imprint on the election of the next administration.” Jeta Phillips, one of the the leaders of the group, expressed the belief that with a Tinubu presidency, youth inclusivity in governance would be assured.