• Meets George, PDP Leaders During Consultation Tour The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant and Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, yesterday, said the drive for industrialisation in Lagos State would jump-start Nigeria’s economy. He advocated a special status for Lagos, promising that under his leadership, he would pursue policies that would make Lagos’ economy blossom. Emmanuel said developing Lagos’ economy would have a multiplier effect on the nation’s economic growth. He said Lagos, as the former federal capital, deserved proper attention like its counterparts across the globe. Emmanuel visited Lagos as part of his consultation and mobilisation tour of PDP chapters. He visited the PDP chieftain, Chief Olabode George, and other bigwigs, to solicit support for his presidential ambition. He was accompanied by the former governor of Benue State, Gabriel Suswan, Col. Habib Shuaibu (his campaign manager)  and  Akwa Ibom Information Commissioner, Ini Ememobong. George, who welcomed the governor and his team, spoke on the importance of Lagos as a commercial hub and a hospitable centre for all. Suswan explained the mission to Lagos, saying Emmanuel attached value to party chieftains. The aspirant thanked George for his nationalistic role, saying that only a competent leadership could resolve the complex problems confronting the country. Emmanuel advised other professionals to join politics to fix the country. He explained how he has administered Akwa Ibom and established Ibom Airline, which has acquired the reputation of being the best airline in the country. He said he has attracted direct foreign investment by creating a conducive enabling environment in Akwa Ibom. He pointed out that Akwa Ibom was next to Lagos on the list of foreign direct investments in Nigeria. The governor said the country should rekindle hope about a brighter future to stem the brain drain syndrome among youths Emmanuel described himself as “a man of immense capacity and integrity,” promising to strengthen the naira through an economic revival that would reposition the country.