Lalong, NUJ Condemn Attack Hoodlums killed a person on Thursday during the commissioning of ICT Hub/E-Library in Namu town of Qua’an Pan Local Council of Plateau State. But Sen. Nora Dadu’ut (Plateau South) and 13 journalists, who accompanied her to cover the event, narrowly escaped being lynched in the process. The hoodlums burnt the Hummer bus belonging to the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), the SUV and other vehicles belonging to the senator. No journalist was hurt. The journalists and the senator were held captive for more than three hours before help came. Governor Simon Lalong and the Chairman of NUJ, Plateau State Council, Paul Jatau, have condemned the attack, describing it as uncalled for. Also the residence of a prominent politician in Namu town, Simon Lajan, was set ablaze. Consequently, authorities in Qua’an Pan Local Council imposed a 24-hour curfew on Namu town. Chairman of the council, Ernest Da’a, imposed the curfew until further notice to curtail security breaches. By that curfew, Da’a said citizens were expected to remain indoors until further notice, while security operatives were mandated to take charge of the town. He advised citizens to remain law-abiding and avoid any action that would cause further breaches. Addressing a press conference in Jos, yesterday, Jatau said that after the commissioning of the project and they all made to leave, the roads were blocked and hoodlums surrounded them. The attackers claimed that armed security men arrested four of their members as the programme was ongoing. They were reportedly infuriated by the arrest of a suspected wanted kidnap kingpin by security agencies. The hoodlums demanded the senator secure the release of their members before they would clear the road, adding that men of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) saved the situation. Jatau noted that the attack on the journalists, who went to cover the event, was unwarranted and unprovoked, wondering why journalists were being targeted in the line of duty. He, therefore, directed that any political party chieftain must provide security before attending any function and warned journalists to be security-conscious, as “it is only when they are alive that they can practise journalism.” Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has expressed worry over the attack on Dadu’ut and the journalists on Thursday. While sympathising with the senator and the NUJ over the despicable act, he directed security agencies to conduct a thorough investigation into the matter and ensure that the culprits were fished out and brought to justice.