…International Renowned Chefs To Facilitate Masterclass Sessions The 5th edition of the Food and Drink Festival powered by the Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO) PLC aimed at promoting Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs) in the country will commence today. After a 2-year break orchestrated by the COVID-19 pandemic, the group is excited to continue the tradition of the annual food fair. Also, the well-fitted play area is designed to add another layer of excitement for children and keep them meaningfully engaged. This year’s edition will run from today Saturday and end on Monday, May 2, 2022, at the GTCentre, Plot 1, Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos. Tagged, “Authentic Nigerian food” the free-to-attend festival will feature cooking masterclasses of cuisines chosen from all around the world and over 150 free retail stalls showcasing everything from the best of Nigeria’s street food to bite-sized gourmet treats and fresh farm produce from the farmers’ market. The masterclass sessions will feature renowned chefs across the world that will bring to the fore their experiences in the international food business. Speaking about the event, the GTCO Chief Executive Officer Segun Agbaje, noted that Africa’s history and rich cultural heritage are beautifully reflected in its cuisines. He said: “The primary objective of the GTCO Food and Drink Festival is to showcase our diversity as a people whilst delivering a sumptuous culinary experience to food enthusiasts across the continent. So as our contribution to the development of local SMEs, we want to see our retail customers who also own small businesses thrive by giving them more opportunities to connect with consumers from around the world.” He continued: “At GTCO Plc, we are committed to offering our customers and communities great experiences with every interaction and will continue to promote viable enterprises, particularly in the food and fashion industries, given the massive capabilities and countless multiplier effects inherent in these critical industry segments.”