President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with the family, friends and associates of Dr. Simon Harry, who took office as Statistician-General of the Federation, seven months ago. The Plateau State indigene, who passed on yesterday, was appointed in August 2021 to replace Dr. Yemi Kale as head of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The Nigerian leader commiserated with the government and people of Plateau over the loss of “an illustrious citizen, as his exemplary contributions to the evolution of the NBS and developmental planning of the country, in recent years, have provided relevant data to government and made the NBS a point of reference on various issues affecting the country.” He said the late Harry ensured that the organisation, where he had put in three decades, continued to be relevant in taking crucial decisions in Nigeria, urging colleagues in the field of data gathering and analysis, asking the NBS, to take solace in the fact that has risen to the pinnacle of his career, the departed put in his best in the service of the country. Born on March 15, 1965, in Lishin-Jengre, Harry attended L.E.A. Primary School, Tuddai, Kaduna State (1974-1980); Amo Community Secondary School, Katako Jengre, Plateau State (1980-1985, from where he obtained his first school leaving certificate and the West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificates. The late Statistician-General was admitted into Ahmadu Bello University Zaria (1987-1990) and graduated with a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) honours degree in Economics, after which he earned his Post-Graduate Diploma in Statistics from the University of Ibadan in 1997. Harry later attended the University of Abuja from 2014 to 2017 for his Master’s of Science (M.Sc) degree in Economics and also his PhD in Economics. He started his public career in 1992 when he joined the then Federal Office of Statistics and rose through the ranks to become a director before his appointment as Statistician-General of the Federation on August 26, 2021. Harry was a member of many professional bodies in Nigeria and abroad. He was happily married with children.