Former Anambra State Commissioner for Lands, Physical Planning and Rural Development Mr. Bonaventure Enemali has declared intention to contest the House of Assembly election on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). He said his choice to run for the House of Assembly instead of the National Assembly election was not informed by power and wealth, but to touch lives at the grassroots and transform the masses. Speaking to reporters yesterday after purchasing nomination and expression of interest forms to join the race to represent Anambra West Constituency, Enemali said he was heading for the house on a rescue mission. He said: “I believe Anambra State legislature is the place I can be. My representation will have an impact on my constituents. “If I win the election, which I strongly believe I will, I will spend the next four years participating in most of the legislative roles in the state. “It will also enable me to look inward to see what we can do to address the challenge of backwardness in Anambra West.” Enemali, who had spent 16 months as commissioner for Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy, said his presence in the house would fast track smooth implementation of the recently-launched Anambra West 12 years Development Plan, which he championed. “I believe that being the lawmaker representing Anambra West at the state legislature will give me ample opportunity to drive that process of actualising the Anambra West 12 Years Development Plan. “Having been in the executive committee in the state, I am in a better position to work with the executive to see through the development plan of the local government. So, I am going to the House of Assembly for quality representation and to drive the Anambra West development initiative. “My aspiration is not a personal quest for power and wealth. Otherwise, I am contented with what I have achieved so far and ready to walk away and pursue other non-political objectives. “I consider it a sacred duty to use my experience and exposure to represent Anambra West at the House of Assembly. I’m stepping into the race to rescue the ordinary people of Anambra West,” he said. 