Nigeria’s largest provider of digital hospital services and information systems has successfully established a quality management system in accordance with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems (QMS). The Health-tech giant, was awarded the certificate for the scope of; “Providing Sustainable Health Management Information Systems (HMIS) and Technology Infrastructure Solutions to Hospitals, Clinics, Diagnostic Centers and other Related Health Services” The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kelechi Uloh, while reassuring the certifying body of continuous improvements, says: “This will further enable us in delivering on our core objective of providing world-class healthcare technology services and becoming Africa’s premium Patient-Centric HealthTech service provider. Thereby eliminating wastages/leakages (through automated revenue collection, realization, and reconciliation), streamlining medical & clinical records/reports and ensuring customers satisfaction. Over the years, our service offerings have enhanced revenue assurance for health institutions, improved patients’ experience and wait time, and providing optimal hospital’s records, reports, and data analysis. Through this certification, HealthStation Limited has demonstrated that its internal quality management and operating processes & procedures satisfy the requirements of the ISO 9001:2015 QMS standard. The ISO 9001:2015 QMS international standard, is an important framework for ensuring quality products/services, characterised with customers satisfaction, as it guarantees that the company has a well-functioning system, ensuring efficient processes & procedures, clear objectives, measurable results, and continuous improvement frameworks. This certification is evidence of the capabilities and the sustainability of our business model and operations. This certification is not only a confirmation of our quality management system, but also an incentive for us to continue to further develop and promote a continual process of improvement. HealthStation Limited remains committed to driving sustainability in the Nigerian healthcare sector using infrastructure, software and intelligence. For Further Information About us, visit: www.healthstation.ng