According to Global Finance, the Nigerian economy is one of the most struggling economies in the world, with a large number of Nigerian youths unemployed. But Nigerian youths are turning every opportunity they have had into viable business ventures. The Afrobeats is no exception among these opportunities. The likes of Wizkid, Burna Boy, Olamide, Phyno, and many other unpopular Afrobeat stars have proven this fact. This was made possible by the satisfying payment they receive from streaming platforms, YouTube, social media platforms, live concerts, and endorsement deals. We shall discuss how far it has reshaped the aghast image of the Nigerian economy and the Nigerian youth. Scroll down and thrill to the beauty of Afrobeat. 5 Reasons Why Afrobeat Forum Has Reduced The Rate OF Unemployment Amongst Youths In Nigeria Record Label effects
In recent years, a vast number of standard Record Labels have been able to boost the career of unknown upcoming artists to the limelight. This medium in the forum of Afrobeat is a key pinnacle that has reduced the rate of unemployment in Nigeria because stars would probably rust in the street because of the effect of penury. The likes of Mavin Record Label founded by the Nigerian music producer, Michael Collins Ajereh who is popularly known as Don Jazzy will lay a great insight into this discussion and there is no doubt with the fact that Mavin Record Label is the most dominant Record Label currently in Nigeria. Mavin Record Label was founded by Don Jazzy in 2012 after his bond with Mo Hit crashed. He couldn’t resist his music-inclined passion and founded the Record Label that has taken over the space of the Nigerian music firm. Since he founded the firm, he has been able to lift over 30 drained upcoming artists from the complications of the Nigerian bad economy.  The likes of Ayra Starr, Rema, Tiwa Savage, Reekado Banks, and Korede Bello all struck the limelight under the shadow of the Mavin Record label. Other top-notch Record Labels like Chocolate City, YBNL, Starboy Entertainment, Marlian Music and Zanku Record label have also played a big role in reducing the awful image of the Nigerian economy. Concerts management 
A massive number of individuals have been able to defeat penury status in Nigeria and great job opportunities for Nigerians through the emergence of concert management. The success of Afrobeat has been able to give room for rigid concert management in Nigeria. Individuals have been able to find a forum where already known artists can come and sing their songs to the crowd. Upcoming artists also have been able to attain the boost and opportunity to prove their talent to the world which may likely fetch them fame. The massive sale of tickets also has favoured the show organizers who can pay their employees from the funds attained from various counts of successful Afrobeat music concerts. This has circulated to improve the poor image of the Nigerian economy and it’s just getting better. Music Charts 
Due to the urge, Afrobeat Enthusiasts across the world imposed on Afrobeat thrilling sounds and genre, music charts have been a massive success in Nigeria. Via enormous engagements, music charts also have spread via websites owned by several individuals in Nigeria. While Nigerians stream their favourite songs, the owners of the music charts via websites like xclsuivepop and other platforms will be able to earn and infuse their net worth. This forum will also employ their desired workers who would help assist and keep the music chart flowing smoothly thereby reducing the rate of unemployment in Nigeria. Blogging
Its effect also has expanded to the field of blogging. An enormous number of people have been able to escape penury via how google pays them according to their efforts. In this forum, holders discuss stories and activities condoned by the Afrobeat musician which attracts massive attention that further fetch them traffic and engagement. Firms would impose their deals across the whole world which will likely favour holders and improve their penury status. This has also dispersed to various field that has helped reduce penury in Nigeria.  These fields are; • Spam bloggers • Forum bloggers • Diss Bloggers Spam bloggers This field is based on spamming content with their products through popular blogging platforms to gain traffic. They portray this medium to improve their AdSense rank. Forum bloggers
This set of bloggers is mostly based on discussing every single forum and stories that transpired in the curriculum of Afrobeat. They are the source of every drama in the genre of Afrobeat. Diss Bloggers The likes of Instablog and many other diss blog platforms have proven the purpose of this field. They are specialised in dragging top Afrobeat stars and leaking their secrets.  Diss Bloggers are the reason the whole world was able to set their eyes on the séx tapes of the popular Afrobeat musicians. Ambassadorial Deals 
Nigerian music space has been able to eliminate the high rate of penury in Nigeria amongst Nigerian musicians through the effect of endorsement deals. Ranging from music producers, and singers to rappers, endorsement deals have been a key pinnacle of their heavy net worth which they bagged in fewer years difference. Firms find thrillers in offering Nigerian Afrobeat musicians whopping numbers of endorsement deals because of the power of their fan base. The likes of Burna Boy, Rema, Davido, and Wizkid are the highest holders of endorsement deals in Nigeria and this has proven the glory of Afrobeat. Conclusion
The beauty of Afrobeat has glowed vast to the extent that it has emerged to be the number one forum in Nigeria that has reduced the high rate of unemployment in Nigeria. All these fields it created also have lifted thousands of people out of poverty and given them a boost to the phase of prosperity. The Nigerian economy may seem awful but the Afrobeat Forum has provided optimism to the victims of penury in Nigeria and it’s just getting better and better.