•Says LCC govt owned not private entity as claimed
Residents of Lekki Phase one, yesterday, called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to stop the resumption of tolling  on the Lekki-Ikoyi Link bridge. Chairman of Lekki Phase one Residents Association, Mr. Yomi Idowu, in an open letter to Sanwo-Olu made available to The Guardian, maintained that aside the unfavourable economic climate for re-introduction of toll on the bridge, there are still many unresolved issues around tolling on the bridge. Idowu said  it was for that reason that residents are appealing to Sanwo-Olu to exercise maximum restraints and immediately suspend the planned resumption of tolling at the link bridge in the overriding interest of peace and order in the community. He further stressed that Lekki Concession Company (LCC) lied in its statement that the residents approved the reintroduction of the toll, as they never did. The letter reads in part: “May we first of all, express our best wishes to you and your administration as we write to bring a matter of utmost urgency with the potential to quickly spiral out of control if not checked, to your attention. “Let’s first paint a picture of the current reality being faced in the socio-economic environment: According to the Central Bank of Nigeria / National Bureau of Statistics, unemployment is at 33per cent , while youth unemployment is at a staggering 42.5per cent; and when you add youth under-employment, you have 63.5per cent  of youths either unemployed or underemployed. “Also, Consumer Price inflation (CPI) is currently at 15.70per cent resulting in increasing cost of food compounded by increased cost of electricity, fuel and diesel prices. In addition to all of this, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is on strike, meaning students are at home, with other unions threatening to go on strike. “It is therefore evident that with elections around the corner combined with Nigeria’s precarious socio-economic climate, any additional triggers increasing the burden of citizens could produce unexpected outcomes. We view with deep concern and trepidation the less than transparent attempt at recommencing tolling activities at the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge, even as matters relating to the #EndSARS protest, which led to the termination of tolling activities in the first place, remain largely unresolved. The issue is compounded by the myriad of issues bedeviling the rationale to toll at this location. “It is against this backdrop that the Lekki Phase 1 Residents Association (LERA) implores the Lagos State Government (LASG) to apply wisdom and shelve its plans to resume toll collection on the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge. “Furthermore, there are fundamental and critical issues yet to be addressed which make the decision to recommence tolling unjust, oppressive, and illegal.” On the pending court case , Idowu said LCC and Lagos State government have continued to use the instrumentality of the law courts to foist hardship on the community. 