Arewa Alliance for the Presidency of Godwin Emefiele (AAPGE), a group of Northern leaders and politicians, has commenced engagements with Northern stakeholders to ensure the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, becomes presidency in 2023. National Convener of AAPGE, Dauda Kushu, led the well-attended event, yesterday, in Yola, Adamawa State.The event was graced by stakeholders from various industries including businessmen, politicians, civil servants, religious and traditional leaders, women and youths, who all endorsed Emefiele for the country’s top job. Kushu hinted that before the event, AAPGE had met with chairmen and other executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 21 local councils of Adamawa, who also received the proposition warmly. At the event, AAPGE leaders stated that the group’s activities in support of Emefiele were due to their confidence in him and his acceptability among Nigerians as a result of his unbiased and people-focused interventions at the CBN. The group pointed out that before Emefiele was appointed as CBN governor, less-privileged Nigerians did not feel the impact of the government. “With Emefiele’s interventions and policies, which are focused on poverty alleviation, the lives of millions of Nigerians significantly improved,” it added. Lauding Emefiele’s agric transformation efforts, AAPGE noted that Emefiele abolished Nigeria’s status as a food-dependent nation and turned it into a food self-sufficient nation, adding that “if the CBN governor is given the opportunity at the presidency, Nigeria will definitely be the better for it.” It quoted official data, which shows that the CBN disbursed over N927 billion in less than seven years to over 4.5 million smallholder farmers cultivating 21 commodities across the country under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP). “Before 2015, Nigeria’s local rice production was 1.5 metric tonnes/hectare. Courtesy of the ABP, local rice production has soared to five metric tonnes/hectare. This increase in rice production has resulted in an increase in the number of large-scale integrated rice mills in the country – from less than 10 in 2015 to nearly 100,400 medium-sized mills and over 200,000 small scale mills across the country – providing millions of direct and indirect jobs for Nigerians. 