Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Tuesday rejected the resignation of his Chief of Staff, Ali Haruna Makoda, and three other commissioners in his cabinet. Makoda, alongside the commissioners for Education, Sanusi Mohammad Kiru; Budget and Planning, Nura Daikadai and Health, Aminu Ibrahim Tsangaya who had tendered their resignation earlier to beat the ultimatum were not allowed to leave. It is not clear whether or not the Secretary to the State Government, (SSG), Usman Alhaji will resign from his appointment any time soon after he declared his intention to contest the gubernatorial seat under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The seeming mass resignation came on the heel of the 48hours deadline issued by the Governor to any appointee willing to pursue political ambition in 2023. The directive, according to Ganduje was in consonance with the provision section 84 (12) of the electoral as amended. Meanwhile, Ganduje has approved the resignation of seven out of the 10 commissioners who have complied with the directive. Those Ganduje bided farewell include deputy Governor, Nasir Yusuf Gawuna who stepped down as Commissioner for Agriculture & Natural Resources; Murtala Sule Garo former Commissioner for Local Govt and Chieftancy Affairs and Ibrahim Abubakar Karaye former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism. Others are former commissioner for Housing and Transport, Mahmud Muhammad Santsi; Muntari Ishaq Yakasai formerly in charge of Special Duties; Musa Ilyasu Kwankwaso then Commissioner for Rural & Community Development and Kabiru Ado Lakwaya former Commissioner for Youth & Sports. While directing the Permanent Secretaries of the affected ministries to take full charge of responsibilities immediately, Ganduje asked the Chief of Staff and remaining Commissioners to continue carrying out their duties in their respective ministries. In the statement signed by Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, on Tuesday, Ganduje applauded the tremendous contributions of the former members of the state executive council, towards the development of the state. 