Download logo The Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) (AfricaOlympic.com), subsequent to the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Gangwon Province, Republic of Korea on 16 March 2022 in Cairo, Egypt, held a briefing meeting with National Olympic Committees (NOCs) on 20 April 2022 to brief them on the implementation of the winter sport project. The MOU, amongst others will see the two organisations collaborate on the following:   The PyeongChang 2018 Legacy Foundation has been appointed by Gangwon Province to run the winter sports support project for youth in snowless countries. In this regard, communication was also sent to all African NOCs to nominate athletes to participate in this project. The project will be implemented in phases, with the first two-week training camp scheduled for end May/June 2022 and another one in 2023. Athletes born between 2006-2009 are eligible to participate in the programme. They can be from any sport and are interested in taking up winter sports. Sports that are part of the project are Bobsleigh, Skeleton, Luge, Alpine Ski, Cross country, Snowboarding. Over and above sports training, athletes will have education sessions on antidoping, equality, human rights and peace. All costs related to airfares, accommodation, meals, apparel and equipment will be borne by the PyeongChang 2018 Legacy Foundation. 100 athletes will be part of the programme, with 60 expected to come from the African continent.  ANOCA president Mr Mustapha Berraf, said “ANOCA is pleased to work with the Gangwon Province, the PyeongChang 2018 Legacy Foundation and NOCs in the realisation of this project. This will give African youth an opportunity to develop skills in other sports which were not previously associated with our continent. We will continue identifying key strategic partnerships with organisations and potential partners in the development of sport in the African continent.”  ANOCA will be represented in the project team by the IOC Member Mr William Blick and Technical Director Ms Ezera Tshabangu, while the PyeongChang 2018 Legacy Foundation will be represented by Mr Arram Kim, Head of Education. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA).