Action Alliance (AA) party has announced a 50 per cent discount for nomination forms for women, youth and People with Disabilities (PWDs) interested in contesting the 2023 general elections. This is contained in a statement signed by Mr Kenneth Udeze, the National Chairman, to publicise the sale of Intent and Nomination forms to aspirants in the party. Mr James Vernimbe, the party’s National Secretary, made the statement available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Monday. According to Udeze, the party is giving 50 per cent discount on the form for youths and women between 25 years and 35 years of age with verifiable birth certificates or evidence of age declaration. Also PWD aspirants would only pay for the cost of intent form, while the nomination form would be obtained for free. “The intent form for Presidential aspirants is N5,000,000, while the nomination form is N10,000,000. “The form is sold for N2,000,000 and N4,000,000 for the party’s Governorship aspirants; and for Senatorial aspirants, it is N1,000,000 and N2,000,000 respectively. “The House of Representatives go for N500,000 and N1,000,000, while State Houses of Assembly form is N100,000 and N400,000 respectively. “All payments are to be made at the party’s national headquarters in Abuja and no refunds of money after payments. “Last day for the sales of both intents and nomination forms is May 15, while the last day for the submission of all completed forms is May 16,” he said. He said that the mode for the conduct of the party’s primaries would be made known in due course. He, however, said a special national convention would be held on June 3, for the presidential primaries when all qualified candidates would be issued certificates of return. He said that the criterion for accreditation of delegates for all the party primaries and the national convention was via presentation of a valid party membership card. “The screening of state Houses of Assembly aspirants would be on May 17, and appeals made same day at the party’s national headquarters. “Screening for National Assembly aspirants to hold May 18, and appeal to hold same day, while screening for all governorship and presidential aspirants would hold on May 19 at the party’s headquarters. “The list of all successfully screened and qualified candidates with other accompanying documents would be submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on May 30, as required,” he said. Udeze said that state Houses of Assembly primaries would hold across the country at the states’ constituencies’ headquarters on May 28. He said primaries for the National Assembly would hold May 29, and May 30, at the house of representative federal constituencies and senatorial district headquarters. He added that the governorship primaries would be held nationwide on May 31, at the states’ capitals. He said that the party’s National Think Tank Committee (NTTC) would converge to confirm the lists of all party candidates and make final submission to INEC on June 2. According to him, only the party’s presidential primaries will hold on June 3, at the national convention. 