Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said the state is blessed with arable land, a good transit network and a talented youth population, which positions it as one of the best states for investment by American companies seeking to invest in the country. The governor made the submission during an investment summit in Abuja hosted by American Business Council (ABC) in collaboration with Edo State Investment Promotion Office (ESIPO) with support from Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) and SVC. The summit, which was moderated by Partner and Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria, Andrew Nevin, had in attendance ambassadors and representatives of multilateral institutions, including the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Food Foundation, Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC), the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and Forecore Technologies, among others. Obaseki said the state had recorded progress in the agricultural sector, with a focus on Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP), with eight participants investing over $500m. UNICEF representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, said with the rollout of opportunities in Edo State, the government was investing in the future of Nigeria. He further commended Obaseki for the work he was doing with young people in the state. MEANWHILE, the governor has sworn in seven members of Edo State House of Assembly Service Commission, charging them to support government’s efforts at improving the lives of the people and ensuring economic prosperity for the state. The chairman of the committee is Mr. Shaka Momodu, while Raphael Okhani, Osunbor Osadebamwen, Ehis Onburekhalen, Aruya Tunji, Iyiekhuemhen Raphael and Matthew Ikhide are members. Obaseki said his administration had introduced technology in the civil service, as part of efforts to deliver quality and efficient services to Edo people. “Having you on board at this critical time in our transformation of all the arms of government, we have the confidence in you to help us undertake these reforms. As you can see, on the part of the executive, we have been working very hard to reform the way the executive arm of government works,” he said. In his response, Momodu thanked the governor for the confidence reposed in them, promising not to disappoint the government and people of Edo State.