Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has said the decision by some presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to form a united force is aimed at taking over power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. Saraki said this informed the party’s move to advocate a consensus candidate among the aspirants. The presidential hopeful spoke, yesterday, while briefing journalists after a closed-door meeting alongside his co-aspirants, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, with Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State at Creek Haven Government House in Yenagoa. Saraki stressed that as an opposition party, the PDP cannot wrest power from the APC if it is not united. According to him, the interest of Nigeria supersedes individual ambitions and that was why they embarked on the mission to consult the Bayelsa governor and other critical stakeholders on how to reach a consensus on the flag bearer of the party in next year’s presidential election. Describing the PDP as the only hope to rebuild and reposition the country, the former Senate President noted that Nigeria is in a bad shape and needs to be salvaged from the bad governance of the APC. Saraki said: “We are here to intimate the governor on our efforts to have a consensus candidate. As you all know, three of us have indicated interest to run on the platform of the PDP. We have been going around talking to the leaders of our party. “The governor of Bayelsa is not only a leader but a key stakeholder who has a role to play in the 2023 election. “The country, despite the propaganda of the APC, is in a very bad shape. It is only the PDP that can rebuild it and give it the direction it needs. “We all have individual ambitions. But what we have come to accept and believe is that the interest of Nigeria is far bigger than individual interests. That is why, in the last three weeks, we have been moving round the country, letting our leaders know that a consensus approach should be used to pick any of us. “Our appeal to Nigerians is that we feel your pains, the hardship and insecurity. That is why our ambition is to return this country to PDP and make your lives better. “We have come to seek your support as we approach 2023. We have spoken very well and feel encouraged by the governor’s words. Let us start now in building those blocks that will ensure that PDP makes Nigeria a better place.” In his remarks, the Bayelsa State governor urged the PDP to forge a united front, if the party wants to win the forthcoming election. Diri insisted that the party must not be factionalised, as a result of individual ambitions, but rather come together to pursue the common purpose of winning the presidential election.