 INDIO, CALIFORNIA – APRIL 17: Doja Cat performs onstage at the Coachella Stage during the 2022 Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival on April 17, 2022 in Indio, California. (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images for Coachella) Doja Cat made an awe-inspiring performance on Coachella’s main stage on Sunday night. The 26-year-old served a headliner-worthy performance for her solo debut at the most anticipated music festivals. Performing for thousands of screaming fans during the final hours of the first weekend’s list of featured artists.
Doja Cat performed her hits in part to highlight new elements for her upcoming track “Vegas,” which samples the classic “Hound Dog,” which is slated to feature in Baz Luhrmann’s film “Elvis.” Born and raised in Los Angeles, the performer spent years in near obscurity but caught industry awareness via SoundCloud. In 2019, she made it onto the universal scene with her disco track “Say So,” whose sleek music video was an ode to SoCal in all its warmly lit, poolside glory. However, the version Doja Cat rendered on Sunday has infused with rock vibes and punk feels interpretation, swaggering across the stage as she rapped the originally bubble-gum bridge. Putting on thigh-high lace-up boots in shimmering pink, she wore a yellow mini that just grazed her thighs and a studded harness bra top with glittering flames. The singer-rapper clenched her mike with a tapered elbow-length glove, enticing the crowd to jump when she urged them to jump, screaming all the while. Doja Cat, born Amala Dlamini, is the daughter of an American painter and the South African actor, composer and producer Dumisani Dlamini. She left school at 16, dedicating much of her time to searching the internet for sounds and instrumentals she then formulated into her songs. Doja Cat is beloved for her stagecraft, generating hits both radio-friendly and TikTok-set. Becoming a household name she’s enabled an impression as an eccentric, an artist with a striking sense of humour and social media authority that’s helped her quickly glide past debate even when she releases unfiltered and occasionally shocking acts. Sunday’s performance was fresh off of her first Grammy win, which she took home for “Kiss Me More,” her collaboration with SZA which was the popular soundtrack of 2021. The set was highly polished but still unafraid to get weird, with an abundance of outfit changes. For her top rendition of “Tia Tamera”, she brought on rap’s punk rebel Rico Nasty, the latter snarling in a devil costume as she leered and pranced across the stage. Earlier the stage had gone dark before Doja Cat emerged in a zebra-print two-piece hot pant set.
“Go down, go down, go down, down, let me see you go to town,” she trilled, a group of dancers dressed in Grinch-Esque costumes gyrating around her. Doja Cat shut down the night with lasers and pyrotechnics, directing her dancers in a boisterous, leaping final uproar but not before everyone onstage took shots.
“Coachella!” she shrieked. “Thank you! I really can’t believe we’re here.”