Settles for Senate as commissioners raise N60m for form Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has denied endorsing or anointing any candidate for the governorship or any political office in the 2023 general elections. Lalong, while addressing an All Progressives Congress (APC) Stakeholders’ meeting in Jos, Plateau State, yesterday, made the clarification to counter insinuations that he had anointed a successor and endorsed other aspirants contesting various offices. His words: “I have not adopted or anointed any aspirant for the governorship or any other office. While very suitable members of our party have indicated an interest in different offices, we are carrying out consultations with key stakeholders to ensure that at the end of the day, the best persons emerge to fly our party’s flag. When such time comes, we will make it public and not hide it. “I pray God to guide all of us to make a choice that is in the best interest of the people, our state and nation.” A statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Macham, quoted the governor as saying that the party would continue to encourage members to build consensus from the grassroots and healthy competition among aspirants and their supporters before, during and after the elections. The Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Idris Wase, charged Plateau APC members to come together and work for the success of the party at the local, state and national levels. Plateau State House of Assembly Speaker, Yakubu Sanda, urged members of the party to close ranks and avoid divisive tendencies that might cost the party electoral victory, just the state’s party chairman, Rufus Bature, said the party mapped out strategies for more electoral victories and reconciliation.
MEANWHILE, Commissioners have raised over N60 million to purchase Senate form for Lalong. According to a statement, yesterday by the Chairman of Plateau Commissioners’ Forum, Yakubu Dati, the forum took the decision to honour their principal based on his numerous achievements in the state. “Lalong has restored Plateau to its place of reckoning by promoting peaceful coexistence and developmental projects for the benefit of the common citizens, irrespective of tribe or religion,” Dati said. The commissioners further enumerated the leadership qualities of Lalong who, as the Chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), promoted unity and tolerance among different spheres. Dati said the senate position would enable the country to benefit from Lalong’s demonstrated leadership potentials and enjoined the youths, women, elders, both appointed and elected beneficiaries, to join other stakeholders who are meeting day and night to key into the victory train. 