 Black woman using gua sha tool Photo Loa Skin Jade scrappers are becoming just as popular as their counterpart jade rollers.   Fondly referred to as the gua sha tool, this flat pebble of jade is applauded for its face chiselling ability, depuffing abilities and skin brightening properties. Named after a traditional Chinese healing method of scraping the skin with a flat tool to raise small, red, rash-like dots (Petechiae), this procedure was used to treat chronic body pain. In facial treatments, the scraping method of gua sha has been replaced with a gentler gliding technique to promote lymphatic drainage, thus reducing bloating. In this piece, we’ll consider the benefits of gua sha in skincare and how to use this tool properly. Benefits of gua sha tool Using the gua sha tool on your face comes with a number of benefits, including: How to use the gua Sha tool Gua sha tools come in a variety of shapes; however, the fundamentals for using this tool remain the same. Apply gentle pressure and rub against your skin in even strokes in the direction of lymphatic flow. A mix of short and long strokes across the face works like a charm. You should notice changes from your very first gua sha treatment. These easy feather-like strokes effectively flush out the lymph from your body’s drainage system by stimulating lymphatic flow and drainage. Choosing a gua sha tool When choosing a tool, be on the lookout for smooth, rounded stones with a good handle. A good stone with the right curvature will fit the angles on your face providing you with more options. You can also use your gua sha tool to contour different parts of your face, including your jawline and cheekbones. Some stones also contain antimicrobial qualities that make them especially well-suited for facial treatments. Stones made from nephrite jade and amethyst are also naturally cooling, while rose quartz possesses natural calming effects. The right gua sha tool made with authentic natural materials is slightly heavier. Our final word? Before using a gua sha tool, remember that while it is a non-invasive procedure, it cannot be combined with other procedures like botox or facial injections.  