Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has given executive backing for the domestication of the Nigerian Disability Act by the State House of Assembly. Ugwuanyi gave the express approval when representatives of Voice of Disability Initiative (VDI) visited him at the Government House Enugu on Friday. Addressing representatives of VDI, Ugwuanyi assured them of his full support for the domestication of the Act by the state parliament. The governor added that he was willing to go to the Enugu State House of Assembly to push for the bill to be passed, as a demonstration of his commitment to the wellbeing of Persons living with Disabilities (PWDs) in the state. Ugwuanyi however, advised members of the group to put their needs in writing for intervention, stating that his administration would continue to encourage, engage and see how it could assist them, saying: “It is all about our people”. He appreciated leaders of the groups for their selfless service to humanity and beseeched God to continue to bless all of them. Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation and consultant to VDI, Mrs Onyinye Mamah, on behalf of PWDs lauded Ugwuanyi for his passion and commitment to the wellbeing of PWDs. She also thanked the governor for the passage and assent of the Child Rights Act and Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act into law in Enugu State. Mamah, who is also the Executive Director, Heroine Women Foundation and State Sub-Committee Chairman, Gender Based Violence, Welfare and Support, also applauded the Wife of the Governor, Mrs. Monica Ugwuanyi for impacting the lives of PWDs, women, girl child and children in Enugu State According to her, Her excellency was able to achieve it through her pet project, Ugo’s Touch of Life Foundation (U-TOLF). She told Ugwuanyi that the PWDs would always speak in his favour and how distinguished Enugu State was in the South East geo-political zone. “When anyone wants security, the person will come to our home. We will ensure that our Enugu will continue to be the pacesetter. “PWDs recognize the efforts of Enugu State House of Assembly and Enugu State Ministry of Justice to put in place, a law that would protect the rights of PWDs and provide for their welfare,” she added. Also speaking, the Executive Director, VDI, Catherine Ede, expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for providing employment for PWDs who are graduates into the state civil service. According to her, I got the work I am currently doing during Ugwuanyi’s administration and appreciated him for it. “It was during your time that many people with disabilities who are graduates got job with the state government. It is a very beautiful record that you will leave behind,” she said. VDI is an advocacy network formed for women with disabilities, saddled with the responsibility of safeguarding and protecting the fundamental human rights of women and girls with disabilities in Nigeria. It is supported by an international foundation known as Amplifychange to implement a project on advancing the Sexual Reproductive Health Rights of Women and Girls with Disabilities in the country. The advocacy group organises sensitizations and rally in Enugu State as part of the activities being supported by Amplifychange to commemorate the 2022 International Women’s Day with campaign theme: “BreakTheBias#”. 