Lagos’ Adekalu Bulls have defeated Glorious Liberty Baseball Club of Ekiti to emerge winners of the maiden edition of South West Five Baseball Tournament held in Lagos. Adekalu beat Glorious Liberty in a highly contested final by 5 to 4 runs in 5 innings. The determination by Glorious Liberty to thwart Adekalu Bulls’ effort was checked to maintain their runs, as spectators described the final encounter as worth watching without any doubt. Speaking on the feat of his team, President of Adekalu Bulls Baseball and Softball Club of Oshodi, Engr. Tope Alabi, said the final would be a talk of the moment in the baseball community in the country. He said the newly introduced Baseball five was organised to get the country involved in the modern-day Baseball and Softball techniques and activity. The South West Baseball five tournament will be a talk of the town in Baseball and Softball community for a while. There was no dull moment throughout the explosive final between Adekalu and Glorious Liberty Chuckles Baseball. It was worth watching and we are looking forward to perfect the new format of the baseball and Softball game. “This new format is an eye opener; we will leverage on it and it will improve Nigeria’s status in Baseball five,” said Alabi. The Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Baseball and Softball Association, Robert Anthony, lauded the organisers of the competition for thinking outside the box to stage the tournament. Anthony, a former international, said that the just-ended competition had given the Nigeria Baseball and Softball Association (NBSA) the occasion to become pioneers of the Baseball five in the country. “I give kudos to the organisers of this South West tournament, I must commend them. The newly introduced Baseball five-game has got its uniqueness and has also become a medals game in World Youth Olympics. “The game of baseball five is an interesting sports to watch as it is played by mixed genders in rapid innings, keeping the audience engaged at all play times. “The just-concluded tournament has presented NBSA Board the opportunity to become pioneers of the Nigeria Baseball five in Nigeria. The talented players and the officials discovered during the event would be invited to the national camp for trials. “Africa Baseball and Softball Association (NBSA), qualifier in Tanzania will be played as a mixed gender tournament same as the World Baseball Confederation Baseball five tournament,” Anthony stated. A total of 20 teams in a single round-robin took part in South West Baseball five, which include Effortswill Academy, Glorious Liberty Chuckles Baseball club, K.F Dodgers of Ikorodu, Badagry Angels and Adekalu Bulls Baseball and Softball Club, among others. 