Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of a Lagos Special Sexual Offences Court, Ikeja, has ordered counsels in the case of alleged defilement by a Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James, popularly known as Baba Ijesha, to file their written addresses on the next adjourned date. The judge ordered the lawyers to file the address as the defendant, Baba Ijesha, closed his defence after the testimony of the fourth defence witness. The defence counsel, Mr. Dada Awosika (SAN), notified the court that the fourth witness was the last to testify for the defendant and prayed the court to give a date for adoption of final written addresses. “I wish to appeal to the court for the possible date of adoption of final written address,” he said. At the resumed hearing of the case, yesterday, the witness, Mr. Olukayode Ogunbanjo (alias Pastor Jerosi), in his testimony led by co-defence counsel, Kayode Olabiran, told the court that he had worked with Baba Ijesha for over 15 years in the entertainment industry. Ogunbanjo, an actor and comedian, told the court that Baba Ijesha was his friend and a colleague. He revealed that Baba Ijesha got in contact with Princess during one of the show he anchored called “Orisun”. “We were like five and six that used to do the show together. On that date, while the show was going on, Princess called on the hot line that she wanted to join our programme. “There was a day she called Baba Ijesha that he should come over to her place in Iwaya. I drove the car to Princess’ house in Iwaya. When we got there, Ijesha prostrated to Princess’ mother and the woman said ‘take good care of my daughter.’ “Ijesha, at that point, revealed to me that he was dating Princess but she was taking the relationship too far,” he said. When he was cross-examined by the Lagos State prosecution counsel, Mr. Yusuf Sule, the witness said he did not have knowledge of what transpired inside Princess’ house. “On April 19, 2021, I did not know what transpired inside the house as I was in Aguda in Surulere. All I know is what I have said. I was not inside the house. I do not have any knowledge of what happened in the house,” he maintained. After listening to his testimony, Justice Taiwo directed the counsels to exchange their written addresses and be ready for adoption. He adjourned the case to June 6, 2022, for the adoption of final written addresses.