Manchester City is vying to complete a league double against Leeds for the first time since 1981-82, a season that saw the Whites relegated from the top flight. John Stones is doubtful after being forced off by a hamstring issue in Manchester City’s 4-3 win against Real Madrid on Tuesday. Fellow defender, Kyle Walker, will be monitored after missing City’s last four games because of an ankle problem. Full-back Joao Cancelo comes back into contention after serving a European suspension in midweek. Leeds winger Crysencio Summerville will miss the rest of the season after twisting his ankle in training. This game comes too soon for Patrick Bamford, while Adam Forshaw and Tyler Roberts remain sidelined. City’s biggest win of the season so far came when they beat Leeds 7-0 at Etihad Stadium in December. But such a scoreline may not happen today, but Man City is expected to control the game and win comfortably. Leeds has accumulated 93 yellow cards in the Premier League this season, one short of the all-time record, set by Sunderland in 2014-15 Leeds has not lost a Premier League home game against Manchester City since a 2-1 defeat on 5 September 2000.
They have been beaten in just two of their previous nine home league matches versus City (W6, D1). Leeds are winless in six home league matches against reigning top-flight champions (D2, L4) since beating Arsenal 1-0 in May 1999 – a victory that effectively cost the Gunners the title that season. They are looking to record three consecutive top-flight clean sheets for the first time since August 2002. The third game of that sequence was a 3-0 home win against Manchester City. The Yorkshire club have failed to keep a clean sheet in each of their last nine Premier League home fixtures. After taking one point out of a possible 24, Leeds are unbeaten in five games under Jesse Marsch (W3, D2). They last went six matches without defeat in March and April last year, a run, which included a 2-1 victory against Manchester City. The reigning champions can claim three consecutive Premier League victories for the first time in 2022 (their 12-match winning streak ended in January, but only two of those wins came in the current calendar year). Manchester City’s only away league loss this season was a 1-0 defeat at Tottenham on the opening weekend. They have won 12 and drawn three of 15 matches on the road since then. City is aiming to record five consecutive clean sheets in away league games for the first time in their history. Kevin de Bruyne has been involved in eight goals in his last six Premier League appearances, scoring four and assisting four. Riyad Mahrez has been involved in 12 goals in his last nine league games, scoring eight and assisting four more. Gabriel Jesus has scored six goals in his last five games for City, equalling his total from his previous 28 appearances. Culled from BBCSports 