• Four Ondo LGAs not on national grid for 10 years
• Afe Babalola University opts out of Benin Disco network
• Ekiti academic institutions exploring alternative power sources
• Buhari’s aide, Zakari describes grid collapse as sabotage Following the last national grid collapse, making it the fifth time in two months and the third in about 30 days, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (SMEs), institutions of learning and artisanal vocations in Southwestern states are fast collapsing. They are collapsing under the weight of unavailable public power supply, estimated billing and unaffordable alternatives, throwing millions of young people into the saturated labour market.
   
Fed up with the back-and-forth on an unacceptable billing plan, a few universities are opting for disconnection from the national grid, while many are currently exploring alternative sources as bills have increased by over hundreds of percentage within few years amid deteriorating supply.
   
With the hike in diesel prices, the situation has become worse for the zone, amid poor supply from the grid. Already, some investors and business owners have commenced scaling down, with others suspending operations over high energy costs and harsh operating environment in the country.  IN Ekiti State, ivory towers have lamented crazy billing, epileptic supply and high cost of alternative energy. The Federal University, Oye Ekiti (FUOYE), the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti and the Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti (EKSU) have expressed frustrations over the epileptic power supply and the high tariff imposed on them by BEDC.
   
The three tertiary institutions said that they are considering other effective and cheaper energy sources to power the campuses. In separate reactions, the institutions lamented that they were finding it difficult to pay the crazy billings impose on them monthly by the electricity firm. Rector of The Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, Dr. Dayo Oladebeye, said it has not been easy paying the debilitating monthly bills slammed on the institution.
   
“We are already finding it extremely difficult to pay the crazy billings,” he said, adding that from the monthly bill payment of N3 to N4 million he met in 2018, “the monthly bill now averages N8 million.
   
“This amount we pay is for an average of six to seven hours of daily electricity supply. The rest of the hours are augmented with diesel on heavy-duty generating sets. This in itself is an additional drain on the revenue of the polytechnic.”
   
The Director, FUOYE Directorate of Maintenance, Ojo Adebayo, who spoke on behalf of the management, said the university has not been enjoying power supply from BEDC.
   
“We rely 90 per cent on diesel to power generators at an average of eight to10 hours per working day. The cost of fueling is excruciating, especially due to the skyrocketing and fluctuating price of diesel arising from its deregulation in the market.
   
“Given this, FUOYE management is seriously looking inward in the direction of renewable energy infrastructure for power supply. Recent proposals from investors are welcome for consideration. Moreover, the business model in terms of contract and financing has been a major concern.
   
“Again, concerns have also been on sustainability of the infrastructure knowing full well that emerging nature of the science of solar system, especially concerning Research and Development (R&D) on battery life. All this makes the initial investment decisions critical,” he pointed out.  IN Oyo State, industrialists and artisans, whose businesses depend on electricity, have lamented the poor state of supply. They expressed displeasure over the epileptic power supply, just as they complained of outrageous charges, which according to them, have negative impacts on their businesses and forcing many to close shops daily.
 
The Executive Secretary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti zone, Mr. Rimdam Namzing, explained that the COVID-19 disruptions affected businesses and general livelihood. The challenge, he said, has been compounded by a poor power supply.
   
He said last year witnessed an aggressive increase in energy tariffs, as the government works towards the total removal of subsidy, which means the price of electricity will still go up. He said a survey would be required to give facts and figures on electricity cost. 
   
He admitted that companies fold up for different reasons but noted that reliable and cheap energy is key to keeping factories open.
   
A spokesman for Oodua Group of Companies, Mr. Victor Aiyetoro, said the organisation spends about N3 million monthly on diesel to power its businesses. This, he said, is exclusive of the cost of maintaining the generating plants.
   
According to him, the huge amounts spent on alternative power would have been invested in other areas of the business to create more jobs and increase capacity.  HOWEVER, in reaction to the incessant collapse of the grid, the presidency has declared the recent collapse as an act of sabotage. Ahmad Zakari, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Infrastructure, yesterday, lamented the situation and urged Nigerians to be vigilant.
   
He said the cause of last week’s electricity shutdown “was sabotage of Ikot-Ekpene Calabar 330KV tower.” Zakari noted that the destruction of the country’s infrastructure “by citizens is difficult to comprehend.” He stressed the importance of improving security around the facilities because infrastructure are vast and span thousands of kilometers with multiple risk points.