• Bauchi Majority Leader denies planning to dump party
• I was persecuted, Speaker says after defection Former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, has described the reported defection of his camp to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as misrepresentation of facts. The state chairman of PDP, Col. Bala Mande (rtd), had, on Sunday, told journalists in Gusau that Yari, Sen. Kabiru Marafa and other All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains had defected to the opposition PDP. Spokesman for Yari’s faction of APC, Ibrahim Magaji, said the action of the state PDP chairman was just like putting the cart before the horse. “Based on our decision to quit the APC, we went into negotiation with many political parties, including the PDP, but we have not reached conclusion with any political party,” he stressed. ON his part, Majority Leader of Bauchi State House of Assembly, Tijjani Aliyu, also debunked stories that he was consulting to defect from APC, like the Speaker, Abubakar Suleiman, to PDP. Aliyu described himself as a true party man with no intention of leaving the APC for any party. He said: “I am a true party man, and I am not consulting anyone. People that are close to me know me better. I am categorically debunking this story because there is no iota of truth in it. “I am not a coward and I am old enough to make any decision without being economical with morality and truth. If I am consulting, I will be bold enough to say it because it is my prerogative and within my right.” SULEIMAN, who is also the Chairman, Conference of Nigerian Speakers, claimed that he left APC due to “serial persecution and sidelining.” His Spokesman, AbdulAhmad Burra, stated, yesterday, that his principal left the APC over the division and litigation rocking the party, adding that he submitted Suleiman’s letter of resignation to the party’s chairman at Guda Ward of Ningi Local Council. Defending his defection, Suleiman said: “The factionalisation of the party at all levels in the state, with every faction claiming the leadership of the party, coupled with litigations led to court orders –restraining any faction from claiming the leadership of the party. It has become difficult for me to determine which of the factions is legitimate. “It is well known that getting a speakership position has been one of the lifetime dreams of my Emirate, Ningi. I pursued the dream of my constituents and, as God willed it, we got it against all odds. “But since my election as Speaker, the party sidelined and persecuted me and my supporters. Despite these, I remained loyal and committed to the party and continued contributing financially and attending its meetings, even if they didn’t invite me. Sometimes I would only get notice of party meetings from my colleagues, but I would still attend.” The Speaker has obtained a membership card of PDP from Guda Ward and pledged to work for the success of the party at all levels and consolidate on the successes of the governor. 