• Says Igbo alone spend N3b yearly on cows
• Kanu takes Buhari, Malami, Kenyatta to UNSC The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has re-affirmed April 27 as date set aside for the enforcement of the ban on open grazing and beef consumption in the South East. Also, the group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, yesterday, disclosed that enforcement of the ban on open grazing in the zone, which had since been pronounced by South East governors and passed into law by many states in Biafra land, would take effect simultaneously. It, therefore, advised anybody dealing on cow business in the South-East to have a ranch, warning that any cow seen after the deadline will be treated as contraband. “Anybody interested in cow business in Biafra land must have a ranch, and properly mark the cows with their ranch name or symbol for easy identification. “The measures have become necessary to stop the senseless and wanton killings in Biafra land by Fulani jihadists masquerading as herdsmen. “Cows seen outside ranches with effect from April 27 shall be treated as contraband products. Owners of such cows should have themselves to blame. “Igbo people alone in Biafraland spend more than N3 trillion every year on cows. We, therefore, want to stop using our money to finance the genocidal attacks on our people by Fulani herdsmen. Let them keep their cows that we may have our lives,” the statement stated. MEANWHILE, the matter on abduction and rendition of IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, from Kenya to Nigeria, has taken a new dimension from Nigerian courts to the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) in New York, U.S. This follows the petition the law office of Kanu’s international counsel and spokesman, Bruce Fein in Washington DC U.S., sent to the United Kingdom (UK) Ambassador to the United Nations and President of the UNSC, Barbara Woodward. The petition, dated April 9, 2022, was posted to The Guardian yesterday by the Special Counsel for Kanu and IPOB, Mr. Aloy Ejimakor. The petition, which was also copied to Kanu’s wife, Uche, told the UNSC President that they were respectfully “acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter to pass a resolution establishing an international independent investigation commission to establish criminal responsibility for Nnamdi Kanu’s kidnapping, torture, and extraordinary rendition from Nairobi, Kenya to Abuja, Nigeria on or about June 2021, and indefinite, ongoing, arbitrary detention in solitary confinement thereafter by the Federal Government of Nigeria,” among others. The petition urged that the resolution should also establish a special tribunal to prosecute persons the commission finds to have been responsible for Kanu’s kidnapping, torture, extraordinary rendition, and arbitrary detention.