• Denounces issuing of ‘empty orders’, ‘usual condemnations’
• Says FG has a duty to answer Nigerians’ endless whys Apex Islamic body, Jama’atu Nasir Islam (JNI), headed by Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, came down hard, yesterday, on the Federal Government, accusing it of failing to curb insecurity. It asked: “Why are attacks experienced all over the place, continuing unabated without any deterrence? Why must security budget and expenditure remain so secretive, despite the reported release of funds?” It noted: “The mind-boggling train attack of Monday, March 28, 2022, the kidnap and sporadic shootings that ensued need to be seriously investigated and punitive measures are taken.” In a statement by Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, JNI asked further: “Why can’t the government proactively take the battle to the criminals’ hideouts and wipe them off? Why should the government wait until people are attacked, life and property lost, before it strikes and issue empty orders and the usual condemnation? The whys are endless?” JNI lamented that terrorists now “operate in any area of their choice and at any time they wish. They even operate for up to eight hours non-stop, as it was reported to have happened in Niger State, last Monday, without any fear of being confronted or apprehended.” The group said: “Terrorists do what they wish, knowing there is no gun powder or authority that will defy them. With all the reported resources allocated to relevant security agencies; intelligent gathering mechanism, military arsenal and tact, can’t the government provide any convincing justification on why the security situation in the country continues to deteriorate?” It admitted: “Without doubt, security men exhibited capacity, resilience, determination and dexterity during the rescue operation on the ill-fated train attack.” It, however, affirmed: “The government is expected to know the enclaves and hideouts of these criminals, especially, as the only government has absolute control on the use of force, and by extension, it also has machinery to generate genuine information.” SIMILARLY, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) condemned the spate of insecurity and urged the Federal Government to arrest the situation immediately. In a statement in Abuja by its National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, the party said: “We have not had it so bad since independence in 1960. It is a sad commentary on our emerging democracy.” It added: “Nigerians need a compassionate government with the milk of human kindness and ready to deliver dividends of democracy to assuage the sufferings of the people in accordance with Section 14(2) b of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, which states that security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. “It is unfortunate that this basic constitutional requirement of government at all levels has remained a mirage as fellow compatriots are being killed daily as if there is no government in place.” 