The release of kidnapped victims of train bombing could only be secured by the use of Private Military Contractors (PMCs), stakeholders have explained. President of Private Security Practitioners, Wilson Esangbedo, told The Guardian that kidnapping and banditry had eaten too much into the fabric of our society to stamp out the malfeasance. According to him, the “government has approved the contract for the surveillance system for the Abuja Kaduna railway line running into billions of naira. As for those that were kidnapped, the government is helpless because negotiating with those kidnappers directly and paying the ransom will open another floodgate of more kidnappings in a cycle that may never end. “There is only one way out to hire PMCs to secure their release. lf government fails to secure the release of those kidnapped, it will be used against the government in next year’s election, as they will be tagged as a government that has failed to protect its citizens. BESIDES, the World Alliance Against Terrorism, Violence and Inhuman Treatment (WAATVIT), yesterday, urged the Federal Government to partner United States, the United Kingdom and Germany to prioritise Integrated Intelligence Surveillance Security to curb attacks by terrorists and kidnappers nationwide. President of WAATVIT, Dr. Anthony Orunkoya, in a statement, condemned the onslaught, describing it as an “orchestrated one,” blaming the Federal Government for its “inability to manage the various security challenges in the country.” He alleged that some highly placed politicians and even the military could be the brains behind the insecurity in Nigeria. He expressed the concern that if the Federal Government fails to tackle insecurity in Nigeria, sooner or later, everyone would bear the “fatal consequences as no place will be secured, neither will there be a hiding place for both the rich and mighty.” The legal practitioner added:  “The Federal Government should intensify efforts by seeking cooperation from developed countries like USA, UK and Germany in areas of Integrated Intelligence Surveillance Security to curb this incessant attacks by terrorists whom the Nigerian press, oftentimes, refer to as bandits.”