Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma, yesterday, described the call by a legal luminary, Afe Babalola, suggesting an interim administration should be set up at the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure, as an invitation to anarchy. Speaking to newsmen after he met Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the governor pointed out that the nation’s constitution has no room for an interim arrangement. He said: “By May 29, if there is no elected government, our constitution has not provided for an interregnum. There shouldn’t be a gap; otherwise, you are creating room for anarchy. “What will be the process of selecting the interim government because, after May 29, the President may not have constitutional powers to function anymore? So, I don’t think we will decide to abandon our constitution. “If you think there is an opinion worthy to be canvassed, superior to what is in the Nigerian constitution, such opinion should be taken to the National Assembly, and they will, through due process, amend our constitution to factor in such an opinion.” ALSO, Mr. Jare Ajayi, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, a pan-Yoruba sociopolitical organisation, said while the group acknowledges the enormity of the nation’s problems, “There is no justification whatsoever for this administration to spend one day beyond the stipulated period, which is May 29, 2023. And the only constitutionally stipulated way of changing government is through the electoral process. Being a law-abiding organisation, Afenifere does not believe in extra-legal means of changing government.” BABALOLA, during a media conference on Monday, had called for the suspension of the elections to allow a six-month interim government after Buhari’s tenure. He said a new constitution would then be developed to address insecurity, the economy and other national ills. According to him, members of the interim government should be drawn from all living former presidents and vice presidents, some selected ministers and governors, and delegates of prominent professional associations. He said: “The same constitution has made politics become not only very attractive but the only lucrative business in Nigeria today. What this means is that any election that holds under the current scenario will end up producing transactional and recycled leaders, with no ability to turn things around.”