Sir: Obviously, the position of First Lady is a privilege and a vantage of influence, which automatically attracts affluence, power and even authority. What a First Lady in any of the Nigerian states does with this position directly or indirectly affects the lives of some people, especially women in that state. Some wives of governors in Nigeria have done nothing with that position while some others have done something reasonable with it. While some are only gallivanting all over the country, some others are busy ameliorating the sufferings of people, especially women, by using their privilege to help the less privileged in their states. The First Lady of Osun State, Mrs. Kafayat Olaitan Oyetola, is an example of occupants of such highly influential and privileged position who does something meaningful with it. So, instead of gallivanting all around, the governor’s wife has always been busy supporting the state government, championing the cause of children and women, and rehabilitating a few people with serious psychological and physiological challenges. Being someone passionate about helping others, and with a view to supporting the efforts of the state government in her desire to empower women and children, the wife of the governor floated a Non-Governmental Organisation, Ilerioluwa Development Initiative (IDI) in 2019. Through this initiative, she has rekindled hope of many and alleviated their distress even with her sympathy. The initiator of IDI is a renowned philanthropist for her passionate initiatives that promote children and women development. Through IDI, she has facilitated many succour for women folks. The governor’s wife offers humanitarian services by providing economic interventions for women as well as scholarships for some indigent children. She was also reported to have empowered over 500 women on agriculture with 1,000 day-old chicks, 1,000 cashew seedlings, 1,000 cocoa seedlings and over 200 bundles of cassava, among many other empowerments. Using her privilege for the betterment of lives of the less privileged and women in our society, she joined the international communities on March 8  during the International Women’s Day celebration to “Break the Bias” against women. She was credited to have used her privilege to support the passage and implementation of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) law by the present administration. The law was made to prevent (prohibit) various forms of biases and attacks against women in the areas of health, socioeconomic engagements and political participation. While I urge the Osun State Governor’s wife to also use her privilege as the Chairperson of the Southern Governors Wives’ Forum (SGWF) to extend her philanthropy to rural dwellers in the state and beyond (within the region), I would like to nudge other women in privileged positions, especially wives of governors in Nigeria to emulate Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola by initiating gallant moves that would help in ameliorating, alleviating and annihilating the hardship of the less-privileged in our society instead of gallivanting all over the country. 
• Jimoh Olorede, is a University communication research scholar and public affairs
analyst.oloredejimoh@gmail.com