 Rita Dominic Photo Ovia Reflex Nollywood had all of Nigeria in a chokehold, one that we weren’t ready for but basked in nonetheless.   As Nigerians joined in celebrating the marriage ceremony of Rita Dominic to beau Fidelis Anosike during the week, we all rejoiced as we watched Kemi Adetiba marry her prince charming Oscar Heman-Ackah over the weekend. One thing for sure was that they spared no costs, tailors didn’t disappoint, and Nollywood was stepping on our necks throughout the week. With New School Nollywood and Old School Nollywood reminding us that the theme of every Nigerian wedding is ‘dress to kill’, picking our best dressed was a tough one. These are our top 10 best-dressed wedding guests from both Nollywood weddings last week in no particular order: Trending for three days in a row, Ini Edo reminded us why she remains a ‘happening babe’ stepping out in a stunning dress that featured wide sleeves, a corset and side ruffles paired with gold earrings and shoes that kept all eyes on the dress. Ini Edo Photo PhotoKulture The bride’s stylist herself, Sandrah, definitely made the list of best-dressed wedding guests in her beautiful corset dress, which featured a gold embellished top and a twist of the modern George wrapper style. Tubobereni Sandrah  Photo Ovia Relex Nse asked who said it had to be a dress and showed us that Asoebi could be more than mermaid tailed dresses. Showing up in a stunning two-piece with a detailed corset top, her style is one for the reference books. Nse Ikpe-Etim Photo Ovia Reflex Representing the guys, Chidi reminded us why he remains a Nollywood fine boy and how he never ages. Turning up in an all green fit down to his shoes, this man had everyone wondering how he looks like he had never aged a day. Chidi Mokeme Photo Twitter A little skin never hurt anyone and Eve Esin’s tailor got the memo. Keeping all eyes on the top of the dress, the bodice was adorned with gold, and the slight cleavage gave us a modern look on being sexy. The snatched waist and ruffled hip of the dress sealed the deal. Eve Esin Photo PhotoKulture Kemi Adetiba might have said no Asoebi, but she didn’t say no Aso Oke and Ini delivered. The beautiful midi Aso Oke tube dress featured silver embellishments at the top, a bow, and the highlight was definitely the gele and pink accessories for us. Ini Dima-Okojie Photo OfficialTobiImages Sharon Ooja ‘blue’ us away with her blue dress that featured a net corset fully embellished and showing some skin. Sharon Ooja Photo David Afolayan Toyin Tomato herself was trending as the mother of the day, and one of the best dressed all in one. Oba arrived in a lace Iro, and Buba fully accessorised with gold jewellery that reminded us why she’s King. Sola Sobowale Photo Instagram Stunning, that’s the word. Showing up in a modest black dress, we couldn’t get our eyes away from the huge flower sleeves that rightfully adorned this dress. Our favourite detail was the fewer accessories that kept all eyes on the dress RIGHTFULLY! Mariam Bakre Photo Smilefotografi Even the guys pulled up. It was soothing to watch Taymesan arrange and rearrange his agbada. Temisan Emmanuel Photo Instagram Honourable mentions: THE BRIDES Rita Dominic Rita Dominic Photo Ovia Reflex Kemi Adetiba Kemi Adetiba Photo Kola Oshalusi