As part of efforts aimed at re-inventing the golden era of sports, the Edo State government has organised a retreat for members of the newly constituted Edo State Sports Commission, with a mandate to evolve a master plan that will quicken sports growth across the state, towards the actualisation of the current administration’s mega agenda. The Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu while declaring open a two-day retreat in Lagos, charged members of the commission to instiutionalise a culture of sporting excellence, professionalism and private sector collaboration. He stated: “The vision of our administration is to instiutionalise a culture of sporting excellence as a vehicle to connect the people, particularly our teeming youths.” Shaibu noted that it was the expectation of government for the commission to serve as a formidable bridge, connecting all ministries, departments and agencies of government as well as the grassroots. According to Shaibu: “We want the commission to set up international best practice and professional standard in sports administration, among the comity of states in Nigeria. “The commission should be self-sustaining and must not look up to government for funds. In fact, we want you to know this from Day One and not depend on government for money.” He further affirmed: “As a government, what we have done is to open the doors of opportunities for you to enter. Once you enter and you are in, we don’t tell you what to do with the opportunities that you find there.” He asserted that for sports to grow and fully develop in Nigeria, the private sector must be actively involved in providing the needed funds, as government alone, cannot adequately fund the sector. He added: “We want you to know that sports should be private sector driven. It’s no longer for recreation as it were, but serious business. What we are doing is to provide the enabling environment that will engender the potentials of our sports men and women, generate employment and enhance economic prosperity. That we have done to a very large extent.” The retreat themed: “A Fresh Start,” held at the serene Lakowe Lakes & Resorts, had in attendance, members of the commission led by its executive chairman, Yussuf Alli. 