Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, yesterday, said he would tackle insecurity that has been hampering the nation’s economy and reposition Nigeria if he emerges the country’s president. Wike, an aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said he would make use of his wealth of experience over the years to bring sanity to Africa’s largest economy. The presidential hopeful stated this when he and some members of the PDP paid a courtesy visit to Oba Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin, in Benin City. Wike said his visit to the Oba was to seek his royal blessings as he begins the journey to vie for the country’s top job. “I have come to Edo State to talk to delegates who will be participating in the national convention coming up on the 28th and 29th of May, 2022. I have come to talk to them because I am making myself available to vie for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I think that we require a courageous, fearless leader. We cannot continue to fold our arms with this situation. I believe if PDP gives me the mandate, with all my experiences as a former chairman of a local government area, former minister and governor, I’ll put my experiences to practice to help the country for the betterment of the citizens.” He recalled that Rivers used to be known for kidnappings, cultism until he met with security agencies and provided what they needed to secure the state, including funds for intelligence. He underscored the importance of intelligence, saying arms ammunition would be waste without intelligence. “I am here to seek your royal blessings and then move on to talk to delegates that will be participating in the party’s national convention,” he told the Oba. Responding, the Benin monarch commended the governor for his projects in Rivers State, the aspirant had been doing “people democracy”. The Oba said: “We are comfortable with you. You know I have personal love for you and whatever group you decide to join it will be luck on their side because the spirit of our ancestors will be with you,” the Oba said. Dignitaries present at the visit were Dan Orbih, South-South National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party; Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, member representing Oredo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives; and
Mike Onolememen, former minister of works, among others 