At the last count, the death toll from the attack by bandits on Kanam Local Council of Plateau State has risen to 101. A local disclosed, yesterday, that 23 bodies were, again, discovered from the bush. The source said the mass burial given to those who were killed initially was repeated yesterday because of the new development. Meanwhile, Senator Hezekiah Dimka (Plateau Central), Senator Nora Daduut (Plateau South) and the Chairman, Kanam Local Council, Dr. Dayyabu Garga, yesterday, condemned the Sunday attack. Dimka stated in Jos, yesterday, that he just paid a condolence visit to Garga in Dengi, the headquarters of Kanam, where he described the massive killing and wanton destruction of property as one too many, disheartening, sad and unfortunate, while reiterated his call on the Federal Government to come to the rescue of the state. A former Commissioner of Police, Dimka also called on security agencies to intensify efforts by investigating the masterminds of the killings to bring them to book as a deterrent to others. “I wish to most heartily, on behalf of the people of Plateau Central, condemn the dastardly act and condole with the families of those who have lost their loved ones in the senseless attacks,” he said. The senator echoed the chairman’s pain on realising that the bandits used the land donated to the state government for ranching at Garga to infiltrate the affected communities. He donated bags of millet, sugar, salt and seasoning as his contribution to alleviate the sufferings of the affected communities. In a related development, Daduut urged the Federal Government to expeditiously apprehend the perpetrators of the act and bring them to book. She called on the Federal Government to put in place machinery that would ensure that the perpetrators were brought to book. According to Garga, the Kanam man is one of the most peaceful persons on earth, noting that history has never recorded a Kanam man attacking anyone for whatever reason. “Since the information got to me, I have made countless phone calls and explored so many means of communication with relevant stakeholders to have security support and reduce the carnage because the bandits were having a field day on harmless communities. “As a government, security of life and property is topmost on our shelves; as such, we stand by our people in this difficult time and encourage them to believe in the supremacy of God,” he added. 