•  Kidnappers using victims’ phones to call families for ransom
• MNOs may explore ‘Pareto Principle’ in barring SIMs Amidst the confusion, telecommunications operators in the country, yesterday, heeded Federal Government’s directive to bar every unlinked Subscribers Identification Module (SIM) card with National Identification Number (NIN) on their various networks, in a bid to control insecurity, extortions and abductions.  President Muhammadu Buhari, in December 2020, had ordered all phone lines to be linked to an identification number to curb rising incidents of abductions in the country. 
   
Officials of some operators, who spoke with The Guardian, yesterday, confirmed receiving letters from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and have since commenced barring outgoing calls from all unlinked SIMs on their networks.
   
This is as concerns mount over the increase in activities of terrorists and kidnappers who get across to victims’ families to collect ransoms in millions of naira, despite the linking and verification of NINs to SIMs.  Kidnappers usually call relatives of their victims with unregistered SIM cards, which authorities are unable to trace. The latest rule will mean that about 75 million phone lines that aren’t linked to NIN won’t be able to make calls. Out of the nation’s 198 million phone connections, 125 million SIM cards had been verified and linked to 78 million unique national identity numbers, according to a statement by the NCC. MTN Group Ltd.’s Nigerian unit is the largest operator with 75 million subscribers, giving it a market share of about 38 per cent. Other major operators include Airtel Africa Plc, Globacom Ltd and 9Mobile.  Following concerns raised over the use of phones to negotiate ransom by terrorists despite the NIN-SIM registration, telcos have said there were no unregistered SIM cards on the network of any service provider in the country, insisting that all registered SIM cards can be traced to their users and owners for any security reasons. Chairman of the Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Mr Gbenga Adebayo, clarified concerns that kidnappers who recently invaded the Abuja-Kaduna train and kidnapped many persons, still used mobile phones with registered SIM cards to contact the families of their victims. Adebayo said telecoms operators have the data of all registered SIM cards, insisting that the owners could be traced alongside the geo-location of the mobile phone. He, however, explained that it could be difficult to trace the kidnappers of the Abuja-Kaduna railway train attack who still use mobile phones with registered SIM cards to contact the families of their victims for ransom because they use their victim’s mobile phones for the calls. “Telecoms operators can trace the geo-location of the phone, from where calls are made with the particular phone and provide the information to security agents for prompt action. “I need to make it clear to Nigerians that there are no known unregistered SIM cards that are still on the network of any telecoms service provider because all networks have been cleaned up and all unregistered and improperly registered SIM cards have been deactivated from the networks, during the registration and linkage of NIN with SIM, which ended on March 31. So, based on this, there is no SIM card that is registered with the network of any telecoms service provider that cannot be traced to the user and owner. “But it is difficult to trace and arrest the kidnappers who use victim’s phones with registered SIM cards to make calls. What we can do as the operator is to trace the geo-location of the phone and provide such information to security agents,” Adebayo said. He urged security agents to utilise information provided by telecoms operators, in tracking kidnappers in their geo-locations, adding that all the information and support that the security agents need to do their job effectively have been provided by telecoms operators. EXPERTS have, however, called for better management of the entire process to ensure the purpose of the NIN-SIM exercise is not defeated.  
   
According to them, the confusion stemmed from the fact that there are some subscribers, who have linked their SIMs, but verifications were yet to come from the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). “So, are we going to block these ones as well?” an official of one of the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) asked.
   
Recall that the deadline handed Nigerians to link their NIN to their SIMs ended on March 31, after it had been postponed about eight times. In a last-minute push for the linkage, the FG had on Friday directed Nigerians to ensure they complete the verification and linkage of their NINs to their SIMs within days.
   
But a statement signed by the Director of Public Affairs, NCC, Dr. Ike Adinde and Head, Corporate Communications, NIMC, Kayode Adegoke, noted that Pantami commended Nigerians and legal residents for their support during the NIN-SIM exercise, which lasted for one year and four months, before ordering that outbound calls on all unlinked SIMs should be blocked with effect from April 4 (yesterday). 