The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone A, has said the fight against smuggling is becoming more intense and fierce due to increase in crime, with smugglers more determined than ever to confront officers on patrol even unprovoked. The Acting Controller of the unit, Hussein Ejibunu, who disclosed this while displaying seized items worth N767 million, said 23 suspects were arrested at various points in connection with smuggling activities in March 2022. Ejibunu, who also disclosed that the command collected N89 million as revenue within the period, frowned on smugglers’ recalcitrant behaviour towards engaging in illegalities often. He said five of the arrested suspects were granted administrative bail, while 18 others are at various stages of investigation ahead of likely prosecution. Ejibunu said the unit has also declared an onslaught against illegal bunkering activities, which is evident in the seizure of petroleum products by a designated team. He further condemned the gruesome killing of an Inspector of Customs by suspected smugglers in Ogun State while discharging his official duties, stating that the long arm of the law will catch up with such murderers who dumped the murdered officer’s body in a pit. The controller said three arrests were made in connection with the murder, along with 78 bags of smuggled parboiled rice at 50kg each and six motorcycles equally seized. He said last month a patrol team uncovered several rice barns in a thick bush behind Dangote Cement Factory in Ogun State, noting that the discovery, which was made in the night, triggered gunshots from smugglers directed at officers. He said the officers’ evacuated 845 bags of foreign parboiled rice to the station in the morning hours. Ejibunu said another attack took place at Ibarapa area of Oyo State after making a seizure of 105 bags of foreign parboiled rice at 50kg each. He said during that attack, which was repelled, a fleeing smuggler dropped his locally made pump action rifle with four cartridges, which the team brought to the station. He said in the same vein, smugglers again attacked a team that intercepted two Toyota Camry vehicles laden with 86 bags of smuggled parboiled rice at 50kg each along Owode/Idiroko road of Ogun State. The controller said the team not only secured the seizure, but also repelled the attackers during, which one was shot in the leg and arrested alongside his gun and cutlass. He noted that the fight against smuggling would always be reinvigorated to sustain the tempo of economic protection and prevention of dangerous goods from entering the country through any entry point in the South West. Ejibunu added that smugglers will always face stiff confrontation as the unit will never be deterred by the attacks and recent killing of one officer in the line of duty.