Oluwabukunmi Oyebisi Adeaga-Ilori, popularly known as Kiekie, is a content creator, show host, skit maker, influencer and entertainment personality. She holds a degree in Fashion Designing from the London College of Fashion. She is also a holder of a degree in Mass Communication from Bowen University and a master’s degree in Internet and Digital Marketing from London School of Business and Finance. The bubbly entertainer and fashion icon, in this interview with IJEOMA THOMAS-ODIA, talks about her journey to skit making. Share with us your growing up
GROWING UP was fun. I am the last born of four and they used to make jest of me that when they were struggling in the house, they had not given birth to me. I have such a great relationship with my dad because my mum went to Saudi Arabia while I was a baby, so I had my dad with me all of the time. My mom is my role model; she’s a business mogul. When it comes to business, she’s the one who taught me. How did you develop this interesting character you portray in your skits?
I can’t explain it. Five years ago, I didn’t think I would be an actor or skit maker. It was Mr. Macaroni that asked me to come and do some skits but I always said I was not around. He said I should do it and it would be nice, I did it and it was nice. Other people started calling me and we did a sequel. We had about six to eight skits together and everything was just going viral. Everyone just kept asking who this girl is and my close friend Mr. Macaroni kept telling me you have to do your own and make your own money I started out and everybody loved me. From there, the movie directors came, Film One came and they started giving me roles. God gave me new talent. You have excelled with skit making. What was the transition like into a full-length movie?
Interestingly, the transition, for me, was smooth and I give all glory to God because, from the skits, a lot of movie directors could see an actor and tell what a person can do. And the scripts started coming in. It was a very smooth transition for me, I didn’t have to struggle for it or fight for it. They just knew that I could act and they called me to come and do it and I’m enjoying it. Are there moments you have rejected scripts?
Yes. I don’t like scripts that are too explicit, that involve kissing or being in bed and being too intimate. Personally, that’s a part of me that I’m not ready to let go. Everybody has limits and restrictions. Does that have to do with you being married?
Even before I got married, I was a brand influencer and some brands wanted me to do some things and I said no. Personally, I don’t think my body is for my husband. My body is the temple of the Lord and I must honour it in a way that I believe or deem fit. I can’t go beyond what I can handle. For instance, I have a scene with Lateef Adedimeji where we are under the duvet but we didn’t do anything. Don’t get me wrong, I can act make-believe but the kissing is what I can’t do even if the money is high. Beyond the craze façade, who is the real Kiekie?
That’s the real Kiekie. Once, I was with my husband and he looked at me and asked himself how he was coping; the way I am on Instagram is the way I am in real life, I am hyper. That’s why I keep my space very small because my personality is hyper. I’m a sanguine and I don’t know how to hide things. If someone starts annoying me, I will quickly change things and get upset. I don’t get angry for too long, I just give it to you as it comes. What is your style in fashion?
I think style is all about knowing what suits you, and what you are comfortable in. Fashion is pain, however, in that pain, there must be a pleasure. I want to look good all of the time. Skit making is gradually leading the entertainment space. What is your take on this?
The space is getting bigger and recently AMVCA just introduced a new category that allows people like me to have an AMVCA nomination. It makes me feel good. There is nobody who is doing something that people appreciate who will not be happy. People are beginning to commercialise the space; they think that it’s joblessness. Some of us work hard and spend millions on the production. We work with a full production crew; cameraman, sound, light. It’s not a joke. Now people understand that we are not playing around and that is why now I’m delighted to categorise myself as a skit maker. As an entertainer, do you still have dream roles?
Definitely. I haven’t acted a lead role yet, so I’m looking forward to acting a lead role one day. Describe Kiekie in three words
Crazy, Open and Fashionable If you have the power to change something in Nigeria right now, what would that be?
The government. I will change the old government and bring new ones. But I don’t know where to find the new government. 