Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) President, Musa Kida, has reiterated that his Federation has a cordial working relationship with the Federal Ministry of Sports, adding that it will not compete with the ministry in the supervisory body’s sphere of authority. Addressing journalists in Lagos during a meeting held by the NBBF to articulate its 2022 programme, Kida said the parley attended by the secretary and assistant secretary of the board, who are staffers of the Sports ministry, is a clear indication that there is no crisis in the Federation. At the meeting, which provided the board opportunity to draw its four-year programme, NBBF thanked the Federal Government for its support towards developing sports in Nigeria. Kida said things have started taking shape with domestic activities set to pick up after the stakeholders’ meeting. “The fact that we can meet today and the secretary-general, who is a ministry staff, is here with the assistant secretary general means that the ministry is already participating in what we do. “Going forward, I think it is much brighter than we have experienced in the past, where we will have the desired collaboration with the ministry to execute our programmes,” he said. He maintained that the NBBF has no intention of contesting or competing with the Ministry of Sports in its statutory functions as the supervisory body, adding, “they have allowed us to constitute ourselves into federations that can run these activities within the territory of the country. Present at the meeting were Kida (president), Babs Ogunade (vice president), Adamu Jalong (North Central Representative), Olumide Oyedeji (South West Representative), Ugo Udezue (South East Representative), Prof Musa Yakassai (NapherSD), Felix Awogu (Sponsors Representative) and Victor Okoro (Military and Para-Military Representative). The trio of Col. Samuel Ahmedu (International Representative), Prof. Florence Adeyanju (NAWISS Representative) and Alhaji Abba Kaka Abdulkadir (North East Representative) joined via zoom.