The 1997 Set of Nigeria’s oldest secondary school, C.M.S Grammar School, Lagos has flagged off two projects – refurbishing of the teachers’ staff room and landscaping and beautification of a portion of land – in commemoration of its 25 years of leaving school. The flag-off ceremony which took place in the school on Saturday, April 9, 2022, was attended by the President of the Old Grammarians’ Society; Mr Olu Vincent, his first Vice President; Dr Dipo Arigbede, Principal of the school; Rev. Jacob Ayokunle Ogunyinka and the patron of the Set and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos; Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. Chairman of the set, Mr Michael Otue said that the old students decided to give back to the school by undertaking two projects that will enhance learning for students. “What we are doing today is to follow the footsteps of men that have gone ahead of us by having the love of the school at heart and upholding its name,” Otue said. “When we thought of what to give back, we wanted a project that will impact the teachers and the students. This is the reason we have chosen to carry out these projects.” In his remarks, the Patron of the set, Prof Ogundipe appreciated the Class of 1997 for appointing him as patron and commended the set’s efforts in giving back to the school. “I want to acknowledge something concerning the 1997 Set, immediately after you made me a patron and we interacted, you are inviting me concerning a project that is to be commissioned; you have done wonderfully well and definitely, the little support that I can give, I will give. You have challenged my set,” Ogundipe said. The Chairman of the 163rd Founder Day Planning committee, Dr Dipo Arigbede who anchored the flag-off at the project site also commended the set for finding it worthy to give back to the school. He said: “I commend your set for your contributions towards the Founder’s Day and moving the OGS forward. You are a very promising set and you have laid a good foundation for others to follow. You have not forgotten your school and by the grace of God, we pray that God will help all of you.” The 25th Anniversary Planning Committee Chairman, Mr Seun Soneye who was supported by other class members at the event said that when completed, the refurbished staff room will be fitted with state-of-the-art furniture for the teachers. He said: The new staff room will be fitted with new workstations, window blinds, microwave oven, wash hand basin, storage, fans and air conditioning systems. The plan for the landscaping is to have a green area where students can sit and enjoy fresh air, read their novels and relax. We are hoping this will set the standard for all other sets.” While appreciating the set for the noble gesture, the President of the OGS, Mr Olu Vincent commended the vision behind the initiatives and charged other sets to continue to do more in uplifting the academic and infrastructure development of the school. He said: “All I want to say is that God will crown your efforts with success. By and large, you are putting everybody on the run in the school. You have changed the entire landscape of the school, This was the vision of my predecessor. With what you have done, the school will be turned into a fantastic place.” In his remarks, the principal of the school, Rev. Jacob Ayokunle Ogunyinka, thanked the set on behalf of the proprietors and managers of the school for the kind gesture. He expressed his happiness that the projects were happening at this time in the history of the school. He said: “When the set informed me of these projects, what I told them was they must seek proper approval and they did. I am very happy. On behalf of the proprietors of the school, the five dioceses in Lagos. the chairman of Lagos Anglican Schools Management Board, the chairman board of governors and the entire school management, I say thank you. You may not know how glad I am. You have come at the right time to do what we are thinking and planning. By bringing this, God will beautify your life. Thank you so much. The 25th Anniversary of leaving school projects are expected to be completed by May 30, 2022, and formally commissioned with other projects being undertaken by other celebrating sets on June 6, 2022, as part of events to mark the 163rd Anniversary of the founding of the school by the late, Rev. Thomas Babington Macaulay in 1859. 