Gypsy King invites Wilder to fight for vacant title Boxing analyst, Allan Fox, suggests that Tyson Fury decided to retire after his sixth-round knockout of Dillian Whyte on Saturday to avoid being beaten by either Anthony Joshua or Oleksandr Usyk. Writing for boxingnews24.com, Fox said the WBC heavyweight champion immediately shut down the conversation of him fighting the winner of the Joshua vs. Usyk fight “because he would surely lose to Usyk or Joshua with the way he looked” on Saturday at Wembley. According to Fox, “Those guys have elements to their game that would neutralise Fury’s slow jab, telegraphed right hands, and his bad habit of clinching a lot. “Whyte looked old, slow, flabby, and nowhere near the fighter that knocked out 40-year-old Alexander Povetkin last March 2021. It’s not that Fury was impressive because he wasn’t, but it was more of a case of Whyte being so utterly inadequate.” He argued that Fury won the fight based on his size rather than his skills, adding, “we have seen the 6’7” Mariusz Wach give Dillian pure hell in 2019, landing many heavy blows. Whyte was more beat up by Wach than Fury. There’s no comparison, and Wach was an aging fringe contender back then.” Fox added, after beating Whyte, Fury said, “I’m done,” and then launched into his plans of doing exhibitions, beginning with UFC heavyweight Francis Ngannou. It’s safer for Fury to fight Ngannou, who has no boxing experience and will be easy prey than it would for him to take on the Joshua-Usyk 2 winner and possibly lose.” Fox said the 33-year-old Fury looked “much older, more like a person in their mid-40s. As such, it’s a good thing that he is retiring because he would surely lose badly to the winner of the Joshua vs. Usyk rematch.” Meanwhile, Fury has invited Deontay Wilder to fight for the now vacant WBC, Ring Magazine and Lineal world heavyweight title, But it is doubtful if the 36-year-old Wilder would be too keen on battling for the WBC title, as, according to boxingnews24.com, the American is more interested in going on a mental journey to decide whether to continue his boxing career. “Wilder hasn’t won a fight in three years, since his seventh-round knockout victory over Luis Ortiz in November 2019 in a rematch that few fans wanted to see.
  
“Fury himself admitted that he doesn’t understand why Wilder is ranked #1 with the WBC, given that he’s been winless in his last three fights, but the World Boxing Council ranks fighters based on their perception of their true ability rather than wins over non-notable opposition.” Fury told Behind The Gloves, “I’d like to see Wilder fight whoever wins the Joshua-Usyk second fight for it again. “One thing, Deontay made 10 title defenses, more than anybody else. He equaled Muhammad Ali’s record, beat Vitali Klitschko’s record, doesn’t get the credit he deserves. “I do believe Deontay Wilder is still the second-best heavyweight in the world. And I believe he knocks everybody else out but me,” Fury stated.