Police ambush abductors in Zaria, free four victims
Four people are feared dead and many kidnapped as terrorists launched attack on Tafila village, near Gwada town in Shiroro Local Council of Niger State. The attack took place about 6:30p.m. on Saturday. Among those killed were two women and two children. A witness from the area told newsmen that the bandits’ bullet shattered the skull of one of the children, whose mother was also killed. The Guardian gathered that the bandits stormed the village on motorcycles, each carrying about three persons armed with AK-47 rifles. They reportedly fired at a truck conveying villagers from Erena town to Gwada Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp.
Others in the truck, who were seriously injured, are reportedly receiving treatment in health centres within the state. When contacted, a senior official of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), who confirmed the story on condition of anonymity, simply said: “We heard something about the latest banditry in Gwada area, but we are yet to get details.” However, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Wasiu Abiodun, said the police were aware of the invasion, but was silent on the number of casualties. HOWEVER, Kaduna State Police Command has said its men, assisted by local vigilante, ambushed bandits, who abducted four persons in Zaria Local Council, and freed the victims. It added that the bandits killed one Yarima Muhammad, who resisted abduction. The PPRO, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said the command received a distress call, on April 15, 2022 about 2340hrs, from an anonymous caller that unspecified number of suspected terrorists dressed in military gear invaded Gabari Community, Samaru, of Sabon Gari Local Council, and whisked four victims into the forest. Jalige said: “On getting the information, the command immediately mobilised operational assets alongside men of Operation Puff Adder II and local vigilantes, who laid ambush on the bandits’ expected route.” According to Jalige, upon preliminary investigation, the rescued victims were identified as Zaituna Muna (f) and Grace Muna (f) both of Gabari village. He added: “Similar strategy was adopted at Gwada village, where the bandits were still expected to traverse, with the assistance of vigilantes, the remaining two victims, namely Fatima Ibrahim (f) and Amina Adamu (f) were also rescued unhurt. “Unfortunately, it was discovered that the bandits, in the process of abducting the victims, shot and killed one Yarima Mohammed of Kufena village, who resisted been kidnapped.”