 Adedayo Falusi hands out gifts to patients during a recent visit to hospitals in Akure, Ondo State. The happiest people are not those getting more, but those giving more. Adedayo Omolade Falusi is one of Nigeria’s finest philanthropists and never misses an opportunity to bring out his wallet to help halt the social problems hindering kids and single women from bossing up against their challenges and living a fun-filled life. “Giving to the needy makes me happier, and this is because I choose to freely give. Whether I have a little or lot of money, how I choose to spend it matters most to my happiness. Selflessness is in my DNA and it’s what it is,” said Falusi, who in 2019 founded the FAO Foundation. Although he started his philanthropic gestures under an NGO, he soon realised that having a foundation would enable him rob mind with like-minded individuals who would enable him accomplish more and tackle more challenges efficiently. Falusi, while unveiling the foundation’s programs, reiterated on its focus which is to promote great opportunities for women in need by giving them access to the right resources, so they can become breadwinners of their respective homes. The FAO Foundation also focuses in other areas such as Food Donation Drop-Off programme which targets urban as well as rural areas. It also empowers vulnerable kids with the needed skills especially in information technology to enable them reach their full potentials. “Food Donation Drop-Off is something that we take very seriously and we’ve continued to deliver in this regard,” Falusi said. “We also facilitate the progress of growing kids, particularly kids that circumstances of life rubbed from exposure to the right education. We are always striving to bring out potentials in them especially in field of Tech as one of the fastest growing industry.” To provide needy mothers with access to the right resources so they can live on their own abilities, Falusi collaborated with Stellar Foundation in January 2022 to train women as bakers. The philanthropist and serial entrepreneur, who In 2020 carried out a road expansion project in Ondo State to grant easy access for road users along the Ilado community and KCT Block Industry Road, in Akure, has a YouTube channel named Head of Grace Christian Community, which he described as “a contemporary community of faith where we teach and learn God’s ways, submit, pray and grow in abundance of God’s grace.” Speaking from the head office of the FAO Foundation in Alagbaka, Akure, Falusi, avowed that its programs would not be solely based on financial philanthropy but on human empowerment. “We will empower more people who will believe in a small-time will, in turn, be able to empower others,” he said. 