Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate has been selected as the host venue of the national finals of this year’s World Corporate Golf Challenge, the Chief Executive Officer of Falcon Golf Development Company, (FGDC), Remi Olukoya, has disclosed. Olukoya, whose company, FGDC holds World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC) franchise in Nigeria, said during the week that all necessary arrangements at making sure this year’s event goes as planned have been put in place, noting that the event, billed to hold from May 20 to 23, will be a funfilled weekend for all participating golfers. Justifying the choice of Lakowe Lakes as host of this year’s event, Olukoya said the need to give golfers quality facility and a memorable golfing experience informed the choice, noting that apart from the course action, there would be other several side attractions. Olukoya disclosed that Lakowe Lakes Hospitality is offering several apartments from one to four bedrooms to participants and friends at generous discounts for the period.
 
“We want to change the way golf is played in Nigeria by adding so much more. Apart from the course actions, we will be offering other side attractions to keep golfers entertained throughout the competition,” Olukoya said, adding that art exhibition, fashion show and cultural display, among others, will add spice to the show. He listed Henley & Partners, NCDMB, Banwo & Ighodalo, Pepsi, Geregu Power plc, OVH Energy, Guinness Diageo, Rwanda Airlines, First Exploration & Petroleum Development Company, Multistream Power Options Ltd and J. Linderberg as some of the events sponsors this year. The world finals of this year’s WCGC will be held in Tenerife, Spain, from October 17 to 21, 2022. Players and guests from over 30 countries, including Nigeria, are eligible to participate and enjoy the hospitality that the Island of Tenerife offers. WCGC is the largest corporate golf tournament in the world. Since its inception in 1993, more than one million golfers from over 50 countries have participated in the competition.