The issue of Nigeria’s identity politics reverberated recently, when a Yoruba monarch, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, declared that he cannot trust any Southeasterner (Igbo) to be the President of Nigeria.
  
The traditional ruler based his assertion on the sit-at-home declared in solidarity for Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, after his rendition from Kenya and re-arraignment at the Federal High Court, Abuja on June 29, 2021.  “The style by the Southeasterners is barbaric. Such is not only detrimental to their economic viability but also to their political recognition. As a traditional ruler, I can’t trust any Southeasterner as my President.  Only corruption is alive and well….”
     
Consequently, in the face of obvious rejection and misperception of Igbo, he infers that “by the morning of 30th May, 2023, the collective energy, resources and will power of all Igbo men and women should be geared towards the creation of an independent homeland for themselves and their progenitors.”
   
Also, founding national chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr. Chekwas Okorie, said it was a blatant misinformation to say that the Igbo are not reaching out or insular in their political behaviour.
     
Okorie recalled how the levers of power were applied to deny Dr. Alex Ekwueme of the Presidency after he laboured with others to found the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) through the G34 he led to challenge the Sani Abacha dictatorship.  Reacting to the outrage his initial views had elicited from Igbo from far and wide, especially the response by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo through their publicity secretary, the palace of the Oba Akanbi said it was evident that the Igbo body has false knowledge of him. “I read and observed the press statement released by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo through their publicity secretary against Oluwo’s message/admonition on in house style/sit-at-home order enacted on our own (Igbo) people. Igbo people are my own. I’ve Igbo in my blood. It is disappointing that my beloved Ohanaeze Ndigbo could jump on the media in response to a misleading headline casted to sell story. A statement by Chief Press Secretary to Oluwo, Alli Ibraheem, read in part: “Oluwo remains one of the leading monarchs canvassing for a united Nigeria, equity and justice, most especially for the Igbo tribe because I myself has suffered marginalization. I’ve invested heavily on sustaining Nigeria’s unity and will continue doing so. I expected a swift eradication of the sit-at-home order by the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and the IPOB, which I trust their cooperation with stakeholders and Ohanaeze Ndigbo can curb. I’ve reached out to respected monarchs from the East, most especially the highly respected Obi of Onitsha and Igwe Agubuzuo of Enugu. “The demarcated restriction is a self inflicted punishment in a united state. No monarch feels the pain of the Igbos like I do. The Ohanaeze Ndigbo should read more about my activities before jumping on the media. My message is to their advantage should they see it as such.”