 US actress Natasha Lyonne arrives for the 71st Emmy Awards at the Microsoft Theatre in Los Angeles on September 22, 2019. (Photo by VALERIE MACON / AFP) Her character in the series “Russian Doll” features many affiliations to her culture. In Russian Doll, Natasha Lyonne finds herself in a  loop of her 36th a number that is important in Judaism. Chai, the Hebrew word for life, is 18. Two lives, or 18 x 2, is 36: the series is primarily about having a second chance at life. Born Natasha Bianca Lyonne Braustein, she was raised in an Orthodox Jewish family and they lived in Great Neck, Long Island, the Upper East Side, and Israel. Natasha Lyonne is the daughter of Ivette and Aaron Braunstein. Her father was a boxing promoter, race car driver, and radio host. Her acting career started at the age of 6, featuring Pee Wee’s Playhouse playing the role of Opal. As she said, “I had so much excess energy, I was dying to entertain people.” Also as a child star she the 1993 films Dennis the Menace and A Man Called Sarge. She was cast in Woody Allen’s Everyone Says I Love You, making her feature in almost 30 films over the next 10 years. At the age of 18, Lyonne bought a house with money earned from her work on the Woody Allen film, Everyone Says I Love You. Natasha Lyonne played the role of Nicky Nichols in “Orange Is The New Black” who was a drug addict, something she had experienced. Like everyone else dealing with their demons, She’s been open about her struggles with addiction; “It definitely felt like I was on a mission, and working was not high on my priority list. I just did not foresee myself being an actress when all was said and done.” Her character in this popular show was born into a wealthy but dysfunctional Jewish family in New York City. In the timeline of her career, Natasha Lyonne has made guest appearances on different series like Law & Order Special Victims Unit, Weeds, Will and Grace, and New Girl. Lyonne’s mother was the daughter of Holocaust survivors. Her grandmother, Ella, came from a large family, but only she and her two sisters and two brothers survived. Lyonne’s grandfather, Morris Buchinger, managed a watch company in Los Angeles. To protect himself during the war, he hid in Budapest as a non-Jew working in a leather factory. She’s currently dating comedian Fred Armisen. The 43-year-old star describes her iconic curly hair by saying “My hair is like wearing a sable coat, in the middle of summer, at all times.” Season 2 of the Netflix comedy premiers on April 20 and begins four years later, when Nadia is not chained to a time loop. 