Things are hard, I won’t lie, I have been stealing
Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have arrested 13 suspects for allegedly abducting an 18- year-old girl in Kogi State. The suspects, consisting nine males and four females are, Mohammed Abdul, 25, Mohammed Ibrahim, 24, Samuel Adesina, 23, Malik Mohammed, 24, Olatoyor Mathew, 26, Tenimu Abubakar, 25 and Shittu Ibrahim. Other suspects paraded by the command were Momoh Friday, 22, Abdullah, 21, Oluyomi Bisola Adesewa, 24, Mariam Mohammed, 22, Yakubu Neifisat, 25 and Samson Rosemary, (22). Parading the suspects yesterday,  Kogi State Commandant of NSCDC, Suleiman Ibrahim Mafara told newsmen that one Miss Elizabeth Ojo was kidnapped on  April 10, 2022 by a  syndicate led by one Godwin Daniel,  who is currently at large. He said his officers were able to uncover the hide out of the kidnappers and rescue the victim alive, through intelligence gathering. He said: “The suspects led by one Godwin Daniel kidnapped Miss Elizabeth and took her to one hotel here in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital.  “My officers through intelligence reports were able to track their location and arrested 13 suspects. Their gang leader as I speak to you is currently on the run. We are going to apprehend him as soon as possible.” According to Mafara, the suspects are still under investigation and would soon be charged to court. He, however, appealed to parents to caution their wards to desist from every act of crimes and criminalities, adding that the public should report any suspicious character within their environment. Items recovered from the suspects include hard drugs, Indian hemp, charms, weapons, and a Honda car marked Kogi LKJ 137 BJK. ALSO, the Kogi State Command of NSCDC, has arrested one Mohammed Ibrahim who specialises in stealing building materials. Parading the suspect, the Commandant, said the suspect confessed to using charms to disappear in a bid to carry out his nefarious activities. The suspect, who later spoke with The Guardian, said” I won’t lie, I have been stealing for several years since I lost my father when I was eight years old. Things are hard. So, I must feed my family and myself. Please tell them to forgive me. I won’t do it again.” 