Super Eagles’ striker, Victor Osimhen and his Super Falcons’ counterpart, Asisat Oshoala, stole the show at the 2021 Nigeria Pitch Awards held in Abuja. At the event attended by many stakeholders in Nigerian football, President of Matchmakers Consult International, organisers of the yearly awards, Mr. Shina Philips, expressed confidence in the ability of the present Super Eagles’ squad to accomplish great things in the near future, despite failing to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup finals. Philips said the current squad has all the qualities to succeed, including youthfulness, talent, zest, ability and enterprise. “The Super Eagles’ team as presently constituted can still win a handful of laurels for Nigeria. I see a team with so much potential and capacity to deliver. They narrowly missed the World Cup ticket but that does not mean we have a poor team. They only lost on the away goal rule and that is a technicality that can undo any great team.” Osimhen emerged the biggest winner of the eighth edition of the awards, with the player, who was confirmed Player of the Month for March in the Serie A, winning the Striker of the Year and the King of the Pitch, making him Nigeria’s Most Valuable Player for 2021. Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Femení goal-poacher, Asisat Oshoala, continued her dominance of the women’s awards category as she was named the Queen of the Pitch for the fourth time. The ceremony, anchored by legendary Nollywood actor, Segun Arinze, lived up to the expectations of guests, players, nominees and voters. In the Goalkeeper of the Year category, Maduka Okoye emerged winner, while Super Eagles Captain, William Troost-Ekong, beat Nigerian teammates, Olisa Ndah and Leon Balogun, to win the Defender of the Year award for the third time. Wilfred Ndidi of Leicester City FC was named the Midfielder of the Year and Victor Osimhen staved off competition from Genk FC’s Paul Onuachu and Leicester City FC’s Kelechi Iheanacho to lift the Striker of the Year award. In other categories, 2021 League winners, Akwa United and Coach, Kennedy Boboye, were voted the Team of the Year and Coach of the Year respectively. 