The National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) has chaired the Ninth Meeting of the Cybercrime Advisory Council, during which he gave a directive for additional cyber-security sensitisation for stakeholders and launched Cyber security Toolkits for MSMEs. Monguno also charged relevant agencies on cyber security resilience and preparedness. In a statement detailing the outcome of the meeting, the Head of Strategic Communications in the NSA’s office, Zakari Usman, said:  “The Cybercrime Advisory Council meeting held on Thursday, March 31, 2022, updated members on activities and events since the 8th Meeting of the Council in compliance with the National Cyber Security Policy and Strategy (NCPS) 2021 and the provisions of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention etc) Act 2015. “The Council was briefed on the successful completion of seven sector-based sensitisation workshops by the Office of the National Security Adviser between September-December 2021 and informed stakeholders of two additional sector-based sensitisation workshops on the implementation of the National Cyber Security Policy and Strategy for critical organisations scheduled between May to June 2022. “The Cybercrime Advisory Council was also briefed on the launching of Cyber security Toolkits for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) by ONSA in collaboration with United Kingdom Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) aimed at protecting MSMEs from cyber threats. The pilot launch of the toolkit in February 2022 was conducted with over 200 SMEs in attendance, while the main launch of the toolkit is scheduled for April 5, 2022. “The Council was further informed that the toolkits would be available for use to protect online activities of over 41 million MSMEs that operate in Nigeria. “On Protection Plan for Critical National Information Infrastructure, Council was briefed on measures to protect telecommunications assets and ongoing efforts to sensitise state governments on emerging threats. “Council was further informed of two workshops conducted on Critical National Information Infrastructure Protection in collaboration with the United Kingdom FCDO, and a capacity building workshop held from January31 to February 1, 2022, on the development of a National Cyber Security Risk Assessment. “The Office of the National Security Adviser informed members of ongoing gap analysis to identify capacity deficit amongst relevant law enforcement agencies pursuant to the Cybercrimes Act 2015 to guide future capacity-building efforts. “As part of measures to address emerging cyber threats heightened by the Russia-Ukraine crisis, ngCERT has increased its routine monitoring activities and advisories to relevant stakeholders and held sectorial Computer Security Incidents Response Teams meeting on March 29, 2022, to facilitate incident management coordination, enhance reporting and strengthen information-sharing mechanism. “The meeting received several reports from sub-committees and the Council also approved the establishment of a committee to facilitate the amendment of the Cybercrime Act 2015. The National Security Adviser emphasised the need for collaboration, capacity building, and information sharing to ensure a safe and resilient cyber ecosystem for Nigeria.”