The Federal Government has expressed its readiness to develop digital policies to attract more foreign direct investments (FDIs) into the country’s technology sector. MainOne, West Africa’s Leading Carrier-neutral data center provider to unveil data center in Appolonia City, Accra  Pantami, who was represented by the Board Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Board, Prof. Adeolu Akande, welcomed Equinix, the parent company of MainOne, to Nigeria and assured the American firm of the government’s support to enable its investment thrive. He said: “The Federal Government has developed its National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy with a clear vision to transform Nigeria into a leading economy. Government also developed its National Broadband Plan, which was chaired by the CEO of MainOne, Funke Opeke, to enhance broadband penetration and development in the country. The MDXi Lekki II Data Centre is in line with the objectives of FG’s National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy. “With the exponential growth of the fourth industrial revolution, it has become essential to provide robust and secured data centres to warehouse data growth. Nigeria and the world, indeed, are experiencing unprecedented growth of data. And we need reliable data centres; hence the need to commend MainOne for expanding its data centre operations to accommodate more storage.” Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was physically present at the launch of the expanded data centre, commended MainOne for supporting technology innovation across Nigeria since it berthed its submarine cable in 2010. Sanwo-Olu also commended Equinix for investing in MainOne to expand its global infrastructure capabilities. He assured Equinix and MainOne of the government’s support for business growth and more expansion. “We welcome Equinix to Lagos and Nigeria, which is the largest economy on the African continent, with the largest youth population and diversity. Nigeria has experienced technology investments from global technology companies, like Microsoft, Google and others in recent times and we welcome Equinix to joining the train. In recent years, Lagos has become a leading destination for technology startups and a home for global technology companies. “As government, we will continue to develop policies that will support private investments. Lagos has reached an advanced stage of the rollout of the first phase of its 3,000km terrestrial fibre optic cable deployment across the state, to support investments in Lagos State,” Sanwo-Olu said. The Vice President, Growth and Emerging Markets at Equinix, Judith Gardiner, said the acquisition of MainOne would increase Nigeria’s access to global and regional technology innovations. “Nigeria, being the largest economy with the largest population in Africa, has been a home for local and global Fintech players and Equinix is pleased to invest in MainOne and Nigeria because of the great opportunities that abound for business expansion and growth,” Gardiner said. Chief Executive Officer of MainOne, Funke Opeke, said the company has exceeded the 600 rack capacity of its first data centre, hence the need to build the second data centre to accommodate more customers. “The second data centre has 520 racks capacity with two megawatts power in the first phase, with plans to expand the capacity, which is fast becoming a hub for digital activities in Lagos,” Opeke said. 