 Rihanna. PHOTO: DIGGZY/SHUTTERSTOCK Rihanna and ASAP Rocky have been spotted together despite claims of infidelity by ASAP Rocky. The Fenty queen and her partner ASAP Rocky were seen via a surfaced video clip to have arrived at the Barbados airport. This comes a day shortly after reports of their rumoured break-up surfaced on the internet that ASAP Rocky was caught cheating with footwear designer Amina Mauddi. The video clip shows Rihanna wearing a fitting gown with a mix of orange colours paired with heels. The couples were seen walking side by side with each other in the company of four individuals helping them navigate toward two white buses that were parked and ready to take them to their destination. Rihanna confirmed speculations of her pregnancy when the singer thrilled fans with images of her baby bump on display clothed in a pink coat, glamming her baby bump with jewels. Meanwhile, Muaddi who is trending for causing the alleged breakup took to her Instagram Stories on Friday, April 15, 2022, to scoff off the rumour writing, “I’ve always believed that an unfounded lie spread on social media doesn’t deserve any response or clarification, especially one that is so vile. I initially assumed it was fake gossip with such malicious intent – would not be taken seriously.” She added”However in the last 24h, I have been reminded that we live in a society that is so quick to speak on topics regardless of factual basis and that nothing is off-limits. Not even what should be one of the most beautiful and celebrated times in one’s life.” Mauddi concludes by writing, “Therefore I have to speak up as this is not only directed towards me but it is related to people I have a great amount of respect and affection for. While Rih is continuing to live her serene, best-dressed pregnancy and I go back to my business, I wish everyone a beautiful easter.” In an interview back in May 2021 ASAP Rocky said of Rihanna, ”She amounts to probably, like, a million of the other ones, I think when you know, you know. She’s the One.”