Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N1.4 billion for the supply of more equipment for the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) to boost electricity supply. Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, made this known when he briefed State House Correspondents on the outcome of the meeting of the council, presided by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja, yesterday. He said: “I presented two memos from the Ministry of Power for TCN. The first was a variation of the sum of a contract for the 132/33 KV substation at Kafanchan, Kaduna State, with a KV line base extension at Jos substation in Plateau State. This is in the sum of N132, 705, 861.42.” The minister said the second approval was for the supply of handling equipment and operational vehicles also for TCN at a cost of N1.3 billion. “The second memo was for the supply of handling equipment, haulage and operational vehicles at N1,338,159,080.88. “They are heavy lifting equipment that the TCN requires for doing its work in the store and on the field while changing equipment and moving transformers.” Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, announced that the council approved fees for seed production in the country. According to him, the council approved N400,000 per variety for private seed companies and N100,000 per variety for research institutions. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, also disclosed that the council approved an augmentation of N317.7 million for the Pategi Water Supply Project, Phase 11, in Kwara. He said the project was initially awarded in 2018 by the Buhari administration at a cost of N3.2 billion with a completion period of 74 months. MEANWHILE, Buhari also swore in commissioners of the National Population Commission (NPC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). The event took place a few minutes before the commencement of the meeting. The NPC commissioners are Chief Benedict Ukpong Effiong (Akwa Ibom), Mrs. Gloria Fateya Izonfo (Bayelsa), Kupchi Patricia Ori Iyanya (Benue), Dr. Haliru Bala (Kebbi) and Dr. Eyitayo Oyekunle Oyetunji (Oyo). The ICPC commissioners are retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Olugbenga Adeyanju (Ekiti State), Senator Anthony Agbo (Ebonyi), Anne Otelafu Odey (Cross River), Goni Ali Gujba (Yobe) and Dr. Louis Solomon Mandama (Adamawa). 