• Stalwarts Bicker Over Consensus Arrangement The newly-elected National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, yesterday, dropped the hint that he would probe the party’s expenditures. Although Adamu did not specify the period the probe would cover, he said the measure was part of ongoing efforts by the National Working Committee (NWC) to reposition the party ahead of the 2023 general election. Adamu spoke after he and other NWC members were handed their certificates of return by the Governor Abubakar Badaru-led APC National Convention Election Committee at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja. At the occasion attended by staffers of the national secretariat and party stalwarts, Adamu reiterated his resolve to live up to his responsibility by ensuring that the APC sweeps the 2023 elections. His words: “As for you the Director of Administration, you have no hiding place. We will count on your loyalty to the party. It is God’s pleasure that we are here at the helm of affairs of this party. We have come with a very open mind but you have to reciprocate in the same spirit. “We will definitely, by the will of God Almighty, look at you, the secretariat. But I’m not saying anything today until the transition committee submits its report. “It is my hope that by the time the report is submitted, you have what they call a clean bill of the ledger. That’s my prayer. “We have zero tolerance for failure in this new dispensation of our great party because we have an anomalous responsibility for want of more appropriate exploration ahead of us. “On the elections, we cannot move the way we are to the election. We have a marching order from the leader of this party, President Muhammadu Buhari. We will have to deliver; there will be no excuses whatsoever and we need everybody’s hands on deck for this to happen. Thank you very much.” Eliciting the support of the secretariat staffers, he gave the assurance that the party would look up to Governor Atiku Bagudu-led Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) for guidance. Badaru congratulated the Adamu-led NWC over their election, adding that out of 78 positions for the NEC members and the zonal executives, 66 officials emerged through consensus arrangement while elections were conducted for 12 other seats. Meanwhile, a former chairmanship aspirant of the party, Chief Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe, yesterday, insisted that the mode of selecting the party officials was undemocratic. Moniedafe, in a chat with The Guardian, warned against the use of consensus arrangement to select the presidential aspirant of the party. He argued that consensus arrangement was synonymous with the imposition of candidates, adding that it would be in the best interest of the party to allow delegates to vote for the presidential aspirant of their choice during the party primaries. Moniedafe said it behoves stakeholders of the party to take a cue from the successful conduct of the presidential primaries of the party that led to the emergence of President Buhari as the candidate of the party. However, the National Vice Chairman of the party (South East), Dr. Ijeomah Arodiogbu, insisted that consensus was in tandem with the party’s constitution. According to him, consensus arrangement was well entrenched in the party’s constitution, adding that it was not forced in the throat of aspirants during the party convention. He noted: “It is only when we cannot use it that you go for voting. And that is what happened. In some positions, we went for voting. Some aspirants refused to step down despite pleas by leaders. I believe the leaders came together and decided on how it will go. And that was how it went. The consensus arrangement saved us a lot of rancour.”