The 11th South-east Cricket Championship for Chuma Anosike Cup ended on Friday at the Umuahia Township Stadium, Abia state with Ebonyi winning in the women competition, while Anambra took the gold in the men’s category. In the final of the women category between Anambra and Ebonyi, Anambra opted to field, putting Ebonyi to bat. Ebonyi scored 103 runs for six in their allotted 15 overs. Ebonyi’s Igwe Purrissima scored 32 runs off 39 balls, while Sylvia Odom was next with 22 off 32 balls.	Anambra’s response wasn’t as emphatic as they only made 64 runs for four in 15 overs in the second innings, giving Ebonyi victory by 39 runs. In the men’s final, Anambra opted to bat and scored 186 for eight in their allotted 20 overs. Anambra’s Eghosa Aghedo Destiny scored 60 runs off 33 while his team mate, Okeke Damian Chijioke scored 31 off 32 balls. Enugu’s spinner, Obinma Chisom, had a field day bowling four wickets in his four overs.	In the second innings, Enugu responded with 116 runs for 10 in 18.2 overs all out. Anambra won by a huge margin of 70 runs. The final closing ceremony was graced by important dignitaries and big names in the game, including NCF president, Mr. Uyi Akpata, South-east zonal representative and NCF board member, Chika Okoro, sponsor, Barrister Chuma Anosike, host and Chairman of Abia State Cricket Association, Elder James Okwara, Chairman of Imo State Cricket Association, High Chief Tony Ajaelu, the General Manager of NCF, Mr. Emeka Igwilo, ICC Level Three Coach, Mr. Olisa Egwuatu and Mr. Nosa Omoigui, among others. Speaking on the tournament, NCF president, Akpata could not hide his excitement at the level of talents on display.  He lauded the developmental efforts in the South East being championed by South East Cricket Association (SECA). He also admired the structure in place for the administration and development of cricket in the region. The tournament saw young players with awesome cricket skills prove their mettle in the middle scoring runs, taking wickets as well as taking awesome catches and making stops.