The management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has effected some changes at the upper echelon of the organisation, in furtherance of its goal to reposition the country’s port system as the preferred cargo destination in Africa. In a statement by the General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA, Ibrahim Nasir, the authority listed the affected officials and their new portfolios in the latest redeployment with all appointments to take immediate effect. They include the General Manager Monitoring and Regulatory Services, Mrs. Madubuike Ugo, who is now General Manager, Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), while outgoing GM, PPP, Mrs. Williams Idowu, takes over as General Manager, Monitoring and Regulatory Services. General Manager Administration, Ajibola Olagoke is now General Manager, Superannuation; General Manager Servicom, Mrs. Moltok Josephine Adar, moves to Administration, while General Manager Procurement, Musa Shehu Yaro, now heads the Servicom Unit. General Manager, ICT, Ohagwa Anthonia Chinelo, moves to Tariff and Billing, while Edosomwan Anthony, now heads the ICT Department. General Manager, Tariff and Billing, Mohammed Shehu, is now the General Manager, Procurement, while Khadijat Sheidu-Shabi has been re-designated as General Manager, Managing Director’s Office/Technical Assistant Administration. Also redeployed are Assistant General Manager, Audit (Policy and Compliance) Umar Abubakar Sadiq, now head of Finance and Investment Department, while Assistant General Manager Human Resource Operations, Felix Onyile Bassey, reports to the General Manager, Administration as Assistant General Manager, Administration. Assistant General Manager Performance Management, Mrs. Dairo Olufunke, is now Assistant General, Manager Human Resource Operations. The Assistant General Manager, Electrical and Corrosion, Allen Taylor Bankole, is to act as General Manager, Engineering. Assistant General Manager, Corporate & Strategic Communications (C&SC), Zhimwan Nansel Audu, reports to General Manager, PPP as Assistant General Manager, PPP (New Business). Assistant General Manager, Operations – Technical Assistant to Managing Director (Admin), Alhassan Ismaila Abubakar, moves to the Abuja Liaison Office as Assistant General Manager. Assistant General Manager, PPP to Technical Assistant to Managing Director (Engineering), Pella Naphtali Nafarda, Richard Unde Terfa, is now Assistant General Manager, Facility Management. Assistant General Manager Audit (Finance and Investments) moves to Superannuation Department to head the investment portfolio. Assistant General Manager, Engineering, Abdul Ibrahim Sani, is now Assistant General Manager, Electrical and Corrosion. Assistant General Manager, Investment, Okeke Angela Uche, reports to the General Manager, Audit as Assistant General Manager, Audit (Policy and Compliance). Assistant General Manager, Administration, Dantiye Zainab Magaji, reports to the General Manager, Human Resource as Assistant General Manager, Performance Management. Principal Manager Hydrography reports to General Manager, Engineering, Faturoti Adebanjo, to understudy the Assistant General Manager, Hydrography. Also, two technical assistants appointed by the authority are Senior Manager Accounts, Abubakar Daniya, now Executive/Personal Assistant to the Managing Director and Senior Manager Civil Engineering, Sadiq Abubakar Lamuwa, now Technical Assistant (Engineering) to the Managing Director.