Says bill to stop the attack on rail tracks underway An All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Senator Abdulfatai Buhari, has disclosed that the new National Executive Council (NEC) of the party, led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, will soon resolve the internal crisis rocking the Oyo State chapter of the party. Reacting to the seemingly intractable crisis that saw parallel executive members sworn in by some members of the party on the eve of the national convention of the party, Buhari urged all APC members in Oyo not to be disenchanted because of the crisis as plans are on the way to bring back unity and ensure all members work together for the party’s victory in 2023. Buhari, who represents Oyo North in the Senate, has also declared his intention to contest for the governorship of the state. He noted that people are waiting for the party to put its house in order to return to power. The lawmaker said he looked forward to serving as chief executive of the state, not on the basis of zoning, but on merit, suitability and competence. Although he did not repudiate zoning, Senator Buhari, who hails from Ogbomoso, said his academic credentials, work profile and achievements as a member of the National Assembly attested to his experience and capacity. He promised to industrialise the state and leverage agriculture to boost the economy of the state and provide jobs for the teeming youths through mechanised farming. He said agriculture could also be developed through infrastructural development, particularly the extension of rail lines to rural areas to facilitate the movement of farm produce to the market. Buhari, who chairs the Senate Committee on Transportation, disclosed that he had since November last year sponsored a bill to recommend stiff penalty for economic saboteurs, especially vandals of rail tracks, disclosing that the bill has passed the third reading in the Upper Chamber. He said: “It is unfortunate the situation we find ourselves. The last Kaduna-Abuja train attack has been one of a hell. If someone predicted this was going to happen, most of us would not believe it.” “Last year November, I proposed a bill that anyone caught doing anything with the rail should be regarded as economic saboteur and recommended stiff penalty. I got some praises and criticisms. In fact, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) called me and said what I’m saying in the 21st century is not good, but there should be trial. I told them I did not say there should not be trial. If they are tried and found guilty, then they should be executed. That’s one thing with the parliament, it depends on the school of thought or the angle you see it from. “Even before the bombing, they were removing the rail tracks. Anyone who removes a rail track has the intent to kill. That is why I called for capital punishment. “Because there is no stiff penalty, that’s the reason why they keep doing it. “If the government wants us to curb the trend, they should get a satellite, locate these people and take necessary action against them. “I have never seen it in my life or even watched it on television where you see people removing rail tracks.”