Following the intrigues that led to the outcome of APC’s national convention of March 26 2022, what appears to be a successful convention on the surface has a lot of bottled up anger and animosity going on underneath, party sources have said.
 
The Guardian learnt that most of the contestants that actually came out to quit the race for the new National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who emerged on consensus, did so under durex or just out of respect for President Muhammadu Buhari.
 
A strong source disclosed yesterday that some of the aggrieved aspirants had gone to court to file suits that they stepped down under durex and not out of conviction.
 
One of their grouses was that the leadership of the party, especially the presidency and the governors paraded themselves as if other stakeholders in the party were fools.  MEANWHILE, Tinubu stands a better chance to benefit from Omisore’s emergence as preparation for the primaries get under way. With the role played by Tinubu and the Southwest governors, the former Osun deputy governor may likely be the national leader’s eye in the NWC.  It is also assumed that Governor Akeredolu of Ondo will prevail on Kekemeke to do the bidding of the national leader in the NWC as against Oyedele who perhaps would have tilted towards the presidency if he was picked as national secretary.
 
The fear over Shittu’s candidacy among the governors is that the former communication minister, apart from being a strict person, will not also be easily manipulated.
 
With the National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel’s emergence, the national leader also stands to gain a lot, suggesting that the three positions zoned to Southwest in the NWC have indirectly been taken by Tinubu loyalists.
 
However, the Southwest governors have been faulted by a number of party faithful for being unnecessarily arrogant by not engaging the aggrieved aspirants to step-down with promises of how to compensate them before the convention.
  
According to a source, the stakeholders wondered why the governors, particularly thought it wise to embarrass the likes of Shittu, who also qualifies as an elder statesman. 