Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi state chapter, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, yesterday, admonished the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over crisis rocking the party following sacking of the embattled chairman of PDP in the state, Mr. Tochukwu Okorie, by an Abuja High Court, saying that the fragments of the party have since been decimated in the state. Chief Emegha made this known while reacting to the recent judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja, that sacked Mr. Okorie, notingthat the recent development has no bearing on the activities of his party, because PDP has never been a viable opposition in the state since David Umahi left the party in 2020. He said, “Before now, only few disgruntled elements were parading themselves as political party, called PDP, but with the court’s pronouncement  and subsequent swearing in of another person as its Chairman, it means there is more trouble among the so-called individuals. “For me, how can a political party which could not elect its leaders in a manner acceptable by the law boast of any relevance. Let me tell you, if they want, let them appoint anybody as Chairman, they cannot win even single elective position in the state in 2023 general elections”. “Ebonyi PDP is just a group of ungrateful, barbaric, unscrupulous people seeking for relevance at all cost.” I have never considered PDP as an opposition because it lacks unity, strength and organisation as a political party.” “Immediately the state governor, Chief David Nweze Umahi, defected to APC in November, 2020, opposition political party died in Ebonyi. “How can a political party without a structure in terms of leadership and which operates from a hotel be dreaming of even of tangible success? PDP is totally abysmal.” “If this is a misfortune or debacle, please let them sought themselves out and learn not to jump the gun by following due process because this is not the era where PDP was in charge of the country and was allowing impunity and abuse of process be the order of the day. “Just yesterday, the PDP saturated the media with fake news saying that my governor, Chief David Nweze Umahi, has dropped his presidential ambition. In a swift response to that unfounded allegation, I told the APC faithful and Nigerians at large to discountenance the rumour because it was the handiwork of evil minded PDP members who never wished the people any good”. The APC Chairman in Ebonyi, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, however, emphasised that the sacked state PDP Chairman, Okorie, who lacks political will and ideology to run a united party, is as good as the incumbent. 