A series of videos obtained yesterday by HumAngle of the March 28 Kaduna train attack has shown victims, surrounded by their armed abductors in a vast expanse of forest area, pleading with the government to act. In one of the latest clips notably different from the one released a week ago, about 15 of the terrorists were lined horizontally behind their captives, holding rifles and dressed in non-combat gears, with turbans covering their faces. The emergence of the videos supports growing evidence of the activities of terrorism in the Northwest, similar to those in the Lake Chad region. The Kaduna train, as this latest video revealed, was carried out by terrorists rather than by mere bandits. According to the online medium, the terrorists have reached out to the government with their demands towards facilitating the process of getting their demands met. Though the demands have not yet been independently verified, it was gathered that one of the demands is the release of certain individuals associated with the group in several detention centres in the country. The latest video appears to have been shot with the previous one as the Managing Director at the Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali-Hassan, who appeared in both videos, has since been released by the abductors. “We are the train passengers that left Abuja for Kaduna on the 28th of March, 2022,” one of the captives said. “On our way, we were attacked and abducted. And between that time and now, only we know the kind of condition we have been in. There are mothers and toddlers amongst us. There are old, sickly people. Many of us are sick. We are in a very difficult and painful situation.  And so we are calling on our friends and families, and the government too, to do something urgently.” As the man spoke, Alwan Ali-Hassan by his right, and another captive by his left, the camera shifted away from him and focused on other abductors sitting or lying down behind him. After, Ali-Hassan was shown urging the government, once again, to listen to their captors and address their demands and grievances to ensure the freedom of everyone. In the second video, four women were lined up: a student who identified herself as Lois John, studying Agriculture at the Kaduna State University and spoke on behalf of the women, two middle-aged women, and an older woman. One of the middle-aged women identified herself as Gladys, an ex-worker of the Defence Academy, Kaduna. “What happened on Monday was needless,” she said. She urged the government to give a listening ear to their captors. 