• Qualifier for West Africa tourney begins next month Former African Scrabble champion, Nsikakabasi Etim from Akwa Ibom State, at the weekend, became the Masters’ champion at the South-South Open Scrabble Championship held at Nelrose Hotel, Asaba, Delta State. The championship, organised by the Nigeria Scrabble Federation (NSF) in conjunction with Words & Wits and Delta State government, featured top players from the South South zone competing in different categories, including Masters, Intermediate, veteran and open cadres. Speaking after his victory, Etim said his victory was a result of hard work, commitment and resolve to prove a point against all odds. “The South-South Championship was a tough event with top quality players and winning such a tournament that has former African and world champions is a great achievement for me.  Also speaking on the event, NSF President, Olabatoke Aka, who featured in the veterans’ category, said the event was put together to help Nigerian players from different zones to bond and also create a high level of competition among the players. “When scrabble Championships are organised in different zones of the country, it gives an opportunity for players to play more games every year. “We want the younger generation to take the opportunity to prove their talent in scrabble, so, we implore players to register on time when any tournament is announced. “The NSF is open to working with any organisation to grow the sport,” he said. He added that qualifies for the 2022 West African Scrabble tournament would begin next month in Abuja with 20 players. Earlier, NSF Vice President, Bright Idahosa, said the Federation’s quest to revamp the sport is yielding dividends, adding that over four championships have been organised this year to raise more awareness of the sport. He called on corporate organisations, states and Federal Government, as well as well-meaning individuals, to sponsor scrabble championships across the country. For winning the Masters’ category, Etim got N240, 000, the intermediate winner received N140, 000, the Open category winner received N75, 000, while the veteran category winner got N100, 000. Apart from the cash rewards, the winners also got various prizes and trophies for their efforts.