Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday, insisted that the presidential pardon for persons prosecuted on corruption charges only suggests that there “is no need to have anti-corruption agencies in the country.” He wondered how to explain the embarrassment the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) is made to suffer by the action, as they have been made to be irrelevant. A statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the governor spoke during interaction with delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State, as part of his ongoing consultations ahead of its May 28 and 29 presidential primary. Wike said: “This is the same government that complained that the judiciary is not fighting corruption. Now, look at after the judges have passed through sleepless nights, from the FCT High Court to the Court of Appeal to Supreme Court. Everything is wasted. “If President Muhammadu Buhari knows that he doesn’t want to fight corruption, then he should disband EFCC and ICPC because he has thoroughly embarrassed them. “So, all these things he (Buhari) is doing are because of elections coming soon. They want this person in Plateau State to help them and they want this person in Taraba State to help them. But it will not work because I will face them in that election.” The governor dismissed the defence put up by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Malam Garba Shehu, for the pardon. He said it should be a thing to worry about because the same people, who said they are fighting corruption, are going through the back and releasing the same people that they saidwere corrupt. He went on: “So, when his press man (Garba Shehu) said I was invited to the Council of State. Is it because I was not there that is why they did what they did? “If you wanted me to contribute, you would have sent me the agenda. Then, I would have known what I’m coming to do in the meeting.” Kano State Chairman of the PDP, Shehu Wada Sagagi, assured Wike of the delegates’ support. 