Professional network company, LinkedIn, has released its 2022 list of best places to work in Nigeria. Themed ‘Top Companies 2022: The 25 Best Workplaces to Grow Your Career in Nigeria’, the Nigerian companies that made it onto the list include players in financial services, information technology, consumer goods, food and beverages, oil and gas, telecommunications, professional services and internet services. Financial services companies in Nigeria dominated with Access Bank, GTB, Stanbic IBTC and Zenith Bank emerging as the top four. The world’s largest brewer, Anheuser-Bush Inbev, ranked fifth on the list while Union Bank of Nigeria Plc made sixth. It was followed by Sterling Bank Plc at number while British American Tobacco, BAT Nigeria tied for the eighth position. First Bank of Nigeria was ranked number nine while Fidelity Bank and Interswitch ranked number ten and eleven respectively. Other companies named are The Coca-Cola Company, Standard Chartered Bank, Olam, UBA, FCMB, Shell, Globacom, Fiverr, PwC, Amazon, MTN, Wema Bank, Nestle and Promasidor. The 2022 LinkedIn Top Companies in Nigeria is the first yearly ranking of the 25 best workplaces to grow careers in the country – based on unique LinkedIn data. “These are companies offering stability in our ever-changing world of work – the ones that are not only attracting employees but retaining them,” LinkedIn said. To compile this year’s rankings, LinkedIn said it considered “LinkedIn data across seven pillars, each revealing an important element of career progression: the ability to advance, skills growth, company stability, external opportunity, company affinity, gender diversity and spread of educational backgrounds.” Companies that were eligible for the ranking included firms with at least 500 employees as of December 31, 2021, and an attrition rate no higher than 10 per cent from January to December 2021. The methodology timeframe used was based on LinkedIn data. Companies with layoffs of more than 10 per cent of their workforce during that time, based on public announcements, were not considered in the ranking. More so, only parent companies ranked on the list. “Majority-owned subsidiaries and data about those subsidiaries are incorporated into the parent company score. All data counts are normalised based on company size across the pool of companies eligible for the list,” said LinkedIn about the report’s methodology. Commenting on the report, the Country Manager at Turn Left Media – the Exclusive Partner to LinkedIn Marketing Solutions in Nigeria, Tunde Ajetomobi, said, “This report reflects the evolving relationship between organisational culture and employee retention. It also shows that the dynamics around talent acquisition and retention remain a core component which organisations must continue to take more seriously and prioritise in their strategic goals. “As we all can see, the work environment has fully evolved, the future of work we always talked about is here, the aftermath of COVID-19 made sure of that. Job candidates are increasingly choosing their companies as they continue to adapt by taking on new skills, even as businesses are adapting to new consumer expectations and behaviour by leveraging web tech to drive effective brand positioning. These rankings are intended to spur organisations in Nigeria to pay closer attention to organisational culture, bearing in mind that competition over quality talent never ceases.” He added that companies looking to improve their competitive edge have a great opportunity to leverage LinkedIn’s suite of resources to position their brands more favourably to attract and retain quality talent. “We are a massive resource tool for businesses, we have the B2B Institute, which is a think tank funded by LinkedIn that researches the future of B2B marketing and decision making, we collect valuable data and resources which are very important in making strategic decisions for businesses. There’s a whole lot more, and that’s why we tell businesses to use our services and resources, join our free webinars, download our reports and get in touch with us.” 