Red House won the 2022 Army Children Senior High School inter-house sports competition in Lagos. The event took place at the General Tukur Buratai Sports Field Army Cantonment, Ikeja, Lagos. At the end of the ceremony, Red House topped the medals table with seven gold, two silver and six bronze to push Blue House to the second position with six gold, seven silver and three bronze medals. Yellow House finished third with five gold, five silver and seven bronze medals, just as Green House placed fourth with four gold, six silver and seven bronze medals, while Purple House finished in the fifth position with two gold, five silver and two bronze medals. Dignitaries from all walks of life, including parents, who turned out en masse to support their children, attended the colourful inter-house sports competition. It was not just the students that participated in the activity as parents, teachers, invited schools and old students took part in various activities. Speaking at the occasion, the school’s principal, Prince Ade Adepetun commended the teachers for their efforts, just as he thanked the parents and those who sponsored the event. He urged Nigeria sports administrators to go back to the grassroots to discover more talents for the country, adding, “through the inter-house sports competition, we can discover more athletes for the country. Adepetun said that the holding of the annual sports meet is in partial fulfilment of the mandate given to schools by the government to raise, nurse and nurture children who will become balanced citizens academically, emotionally and physically. He said: “It is our own way of showing that we agree completely with the maxim that a sound mind can only lie in a sound body. In this school, we hold all the three major domains of learning-cognitive, affective and psychomotor-highly seriously and equally because children cannot become total, balanced and effective persons if any of the domains is underdeveloped in them. “ Our doggedness and single-minded promotion of the domains of learning, aided by the unqualified and unquantifiable support of the Lagos State Government, parents/guardians have made the school continue to excel in all aspects of learning.” He added that the result of the students in both internal and external examinations have been impressive, scintillating and superlative.