 Africa’s largest hotel investment conference, Africa Hospitality Investment Forum (AHIF) (www.AHIF.com), today announced the appointment of APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) Founder and Chairman Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard to its Advisory Board.  AHIF is renowned as the annual meeting place for the region’s most senior hospitality investors, developers, operators and advisors. It connects business leaders from the international and local markets, driving investment into tourism projects, infrastructure and hotel development across Africa. Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard (www.Pompigne-Mognard.com) founded APO Group in 2007, and the company is now the leading Pan-African communications consultancy and press release distribution service. APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) has always been committed to boosting investment opportunities in Africa, and Nicolas’s advice will ensure AHIF and the wider African hospitality industry has access to the right information and the best communication channels, helping drive investment across the continent. Nicolas also sits on the Senior Advisory Board of the Canada-Africa Chamber of Business (https://bit.ly/377hwiC), and on the Advisory Boards of the African Energy Chamber (https://bit.ly/3jLXixD), the leading voice in Africa’s fast-growing Energy sector, and of the EurAfrican Forum (https://bit.ly/3uGxTvz), an action-oriented platform that aims to foster stronger collaboration between Europe and Africa. He is also a member of the Task Force for the FIFA – CAF Infrastructure Development Project. The annual AHIF conferences feature networking receptions, dinners, roundtable discussions, speed networking and scheduled business meetings, with speakers carefully selected for their industry knowledge, experience and insight. AHIF brings together people from all areas of the hospitality industry, including: Senior decision-makers, Investors, Hotel Owners, Lenders, Developers, Operators, CEOs, Hotel Chain Executives, Financial Advisors, Real Estate Agents, Lawyers, Designers, Architects, Consultants, Developers and Government Officials. The last edition on AHIF, held in 2019, involved: According to a study by Grant Thornton, AHIF delivered a direct boost to African economies that totalled an estimated $16.8 billion between the inaugural event in 2011 and the one held in 2016, with much more investment generated in subsequent years. AHIF returns in 2022, with a 3-day event held in Morocco in October. The other members of AHIF’s Advisory Board include: “Nicolas and APO Group are at the forefront of African business communications,” said Matthew Weihs, Managing Director of Bench Events, organiser of AHIF. “Nicolas shares our vision for driving investment across the continent, and he brings a wealth of experience to our Advisory Board. His network and connections will provide AHIF sponsors and delegates with amazing networking opportunities.” “I am delighted to be part of the AHIF Advisory Board,” said Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard, Founder and Chairman of APO Group. “AHIF is the premier event in the hotel investment industry in Africa, and it remains a showcase for tourism and hospitality across the continent. I look forward to working with delegates to drive interest and much needed investment to a diverse variety of African projects.” The full list of AHIF’s Advisory Board is available at: https://bit.ly/3LYIoQt Distributed by APO Group on behalf of APO Group. Media contact:
marie@apo-opa.com About APO Group:
Founded in 2007, APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) is the leading pan-African communications consultancy and press release distribution service. We assist private and public organisations in sharpening their reputation and increasing their brand equity in target countries across Africa. Our role as a trusted partner is to leverage the power of media and build bespoke strategies that enable organisations to produce a real, measurable impact in Africa and beyond. The trust and recognition granted to APO Group by global and multinational companies, governments, and NGOs inspires us to continuously enhance our value proposition within Africa to better cater to our clients’ needs. Among our prestigious clients: Facebook, Dangote Group, Nestle, GE, NBA, Canon, Coca-Cola, DHL, Marriott Group, Ecobank, Siemens, Standard Chartered, Orange, Jack Ma Foundation, African Development Bank, World Health Organization, Islamic Development Bank, Liquid Intelligent Technologies, Rotary International, Kaspersky, Greenpeace… Headquarters: Lausanne, Switzerland | Offices in Senegal, Dubai and Hong Kong