Former Governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang, has applauded the state pardon granted to former governors Joshua Dariye of the state and Jolly Nyame of Taraba State by the National Council of State. This is as a governorship aspirant in Taraba State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Anthony Manzo, also expressed appreciation to the National Council of State for granting state pardon to the duo. Jang, in a statement yesterday by his Media Consultant, Mr. Clinton Garuba, noted that the pardon granted to the former governors was a reflection of the wish of the people. He said: “We express our gratitude to the President for heeding the calls by many, including Senator Jonah David Jang, who in 2021 made a passionate appeal to Mr. President for the pardon and release of Senator Dariye and former Governor Jolly Nyame to enable them contribute their quota to the development of the nation. “We welcome our leaders home and wish them success in their endeavours. We look forward to having them return to a turf they are familiar with – politicking and providing leadership for our people. “We also urge both leaders to put behind their ordeals and concentrate on the onerous task of making the nation a better place.” Speaking in a similar vein, Manzo in a statement yesterday, noted that Nyame would deploy his wealth of experience and knowledge towards restoring peace and unity in the state. The former Nigerian Ambassador to Israel and Cyprus said: “I am pleased that our leader, Rev. Nyame is free. I am happy that he is rejoining his family and will be able to access medical care. “We are excited in Taraba State because Rev. Nyame as peace maker and bridge builder will continue to contribute to the peace process, unity and development of our state.” He pointed out that some useful lessons must have been learnt from the prison experience, which he opined would put Nyame in a better stead in the years ahead. He thanked family members, friends and associates of Nyame who stood by him during his travails.