Edo State Government has intensified enforcement against street trading, hawking and illegal vehicle parking across markets in the Benin metropolis, in a renewed effort to clear the state of all environmental nuisances and restore sanity to its markets. Officials of Edo State Public Works Volunteers (PUWOV), led by its Coordinator, Mukhtar Yusuf-Osagie, embarked on clampdown on illegal traders and vehicle parks in markets within the metropolis. The coordinator said the activities of street traders in market areas and adjoining streets lead to chaos, which disrupt free flow of traffic, making it difficult to ensure orderliness and sanity in the market areas and other parts of Benin. The team visited Eyaen Market, among others, to ensure compliance with  government’s directive to ensure safety and sanity across the state. He said the clampdown was in response to several complaints by residents on the hardship faced by motorists as a result of unnecessary gridlock created by street traders and reckless parking by commercial drivers. Yusuf-Osagie noted that the enforcement followed several sensitization programmes and the expiration of the seven-day notice to the traders. He said: “Our officials had earlier visited Eyean Market, among others within the Benin metropolis to sensitize traders and motorists to desist from  unlawful acts of street trading and reckless parking. “The traders were given a seven-day notice to evacuate all tables and makeshift shops from the road and walkways as the state government has directed the cleanup of the area. This clampdown is a follow-up to that directive. “I am glad to inform you that officials of PUWOV have restored sanity to Eyean Market and environs and we are extending the enforcement to other markets. All makeshift shops have been evacuated from the road and moved inside the main market. “Motorists and other road users can now freely access Eyean Market and others within the metropolis without any form of harassment from street traders.” 