Nigeria’s First Lady, Aisha Buhari, has invited leading presidential aspirants from various political parties to the State House Conference Centre for an iftar dinner. It was gathered that the invited persons were asked not to come to the venue of the dinner with their phones, and only carry their invitation cards which would serve as the only entry permit for the event. However, it was gathered that the directive to them not to approach the venue with phones will not apply to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, governors and ministers who are expected to be at the meeting. Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Wife of the President, Aliyu Abdullahi, who confirmed the development said “There is nothing here. This is a standard operational protocol in the Villa when you are having either of the three occupants of the Presidency. If they are coming for an event, this is supposed to be DSS enforced. “Whether the president is having an event or the Vice President is having an event or the first lady is having an event. Because outsiders will come. That’s the security and standard protocol. “That does not apply to the Vice President. How can you expect that to apply to the Vice President or even to ministers?” So far, those who have indicated interest to contest the 2023 Presidential election include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the All Progressives Congress (APC) national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi and former presidents of the Nigerian Senate, Anyim Pius Anyim and Bukola Saraki. Others are the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, his Ebonyi State counterpart, Dave Umahi, that of Sokoto and Bauchi States, Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed respectively. Former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, the Minister of Labour and Employment, and Senator Chris Ngige,  and Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi among others have also indicated interest to contest the 2023 presidential elections. 