 Tory Lanez and Megan Thee Stallion Tory Lanez was arrested and taken into custody in a Los Angeles courtroom on Tuesday after a judge discovered he violated orders in his two-year felony assault case involving Megan Thee Stallion’s shooting. Judge David Herriford had revived Lanez’s prior bail of $250,000, raising it to $350,000 after an hour of arguments. Judge Herriford also found Lanez guilty of violating court orders prohibiting him from contacting or harassing Megan or discussing any discovery in the case with outside parties. Lanez attended the morning hearing with a bondsman and spent almost five hours in custody before he was let out on bail. Speaking to Rolling Stone after he was processed and released, he said he felt “amazing” before climbing into a waiting Lamborghini and driving away. Real name Daystar Peterson, Lanez pleaded guilty in the high profile lease dating back to July 2020. His lawyer, Shawn Holley, had argued that he (Lanez) did not provide a third-party Twitter user and YouTube personality DJ Akademiks with any discovery in the case before Akademiks tweeted on February 23 that “Tory Lanez DNA was not found on the weapon in the Meg Thee Stallion case.” Referring to Akademiks’ now-deleted tweet, which caused a firestorm on social media, Holley told the court, “What he said is incorrect.” “What (DJ Akademiks) said is that the DNA was not found on the weapon. And in fact, the swab of the gun indicates ‘inconclusive,’ that there were four contributors.” She also referred to a follow-up February 23 tweet from DJ Akademiks, “I saw this doc myself.. it literally says it was inconclusive in finding Tory DNA on the gun or magazine.” Arguing that this was false, Holley noted that “the swab of the magazine indicates Mr Peterson was excluded.” “If he had seen this document, he presumably would have got it right,” she argued, describing the tweets as “chatter.” The shooting case is now headed towards a tentative September 14 trial after a judge had decided at a preliminary hearing in December that prosecutors had enough evidence to warrant calling a jury. At the December hearing, an LAPD detective testified that Peterson allegedly fired a semiautomatic 9mm handgun at the ground near Megan’s feet, injuring her after an argument that made them leave Kylie Jenner’s house.