•Partners FRSC on training of traffic personnel
•Orders mechanics, artisans to vacate river bank Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has approved the immediate construction of 10 additional roads in different parts of the 27 Local Councils of the State. While most of the roads to be constructed are in the rural areas, no amount was disclosed for the award of the contracts.
Briefing journalists at the weekend in Owerri, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, named some of the legacy roads as the Nempi – Amofu – Orsu; Amandugba; Umudim – Dikenafai; Avu – Adapalm; and Ngor Opkala -Eche Roads. Emelumba disclosed that some of the indigenes of the affected areas had messages of solidarity to the governor expressing gratitude to him over the quality of the roads already constructed by his administration. According to the commissioner, 10 roads awarded by Uzodimma some months ago have been completed and ready for inauguration. He noted that the State Executive Council (EXCO) was delighted with the quality of the roads executed by Uzodimma’s administration urging the contractors to sustain the tempo. MEANWHILE, Imo State Government and the authorities of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), have reached a working agreement on the capacity building of the personnel of the revived Imo State Traffic Management Authority (ISTMA). According to a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer of the Ministry of Transport, Nnodimele Njideka, and made available to The Guardian at the weekend, the collaboration on the training programme was sealed when the Sector Commander of the agency, Adekanye Joshua Oluwafeni, visited the Commissioner for Transport, Chief Rex Anunobi, in Owerri. Anunobi, according to the statement, disclosed that Uzodimma placed much premium on reviving the ISTMA, which was established on the strength of the law  No.14 of 2011, aimed at bringing sanity and discipline on the roads and projecting the urban renewal Programme. He, therefore, stressed that the illegal motor parks and traffic congestion are the government’s projections to be tackled. Anunobi, also informed that the Driving School Standardisation Programme (DSSP), which he chairs, had been strengthened to ensure that there is sanity in issuance of both learner’s permit and driver’s license. IN another development, the state government has directed all the mechanics, artisans and those roasting edible items operating in the Nworie River bank areas in Owerri, to vacate the vicinity, warning that anyone caught, henceforth, would be arrested, property impounded and prosecuted. According to a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Creative Arts, Ben Uwakwe, and made available to The Guardian at the weekend, the commissioner in charge of the Ministry, Dr. Uche Ohia, gave the directive regretting that they were defacing the genuine esthetics park work going on in the area. The statement also noted that the commissioner warned trespassers to desist.