The Lagos State Weightlifting Association (LSWA) has commended Rite Foods, makers of Fearless energy drink brand, for boosting its activities with gymnastics equipment, as part of its contributions to sports development. Among the equipment donated to LSWA by Fearless Energy on Wednesday at Rowe Park Sports Centre, in Yaba, Lagos, are Bench Press, Electronic Scale and Dumbbell. Presenting the equipment to the Chairman of the LSWA, Kunle Komolafe, Rite Foods’ Brand Manager, Boluwatife Adedugbe, said Fearless Energy drink deemed it necessary to support the organisation as a way of encouraging young Nigerians in weightlifting as a sport, and to keep them involved in meaningful activities that would enhance their skills for participation at local and global events, as they so desire. She affirmed that the energy drink brand, which consists of the Fearless Classic and Fearless Red Berry products, would continue to support worthy initiatives like those of the LSWA to ensure it actively partakes in competitions and training. Adedugbe pointed out that the brand’s inventiveness has earned high recognition in the energy drinks market with the first-ever packaged polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle packaging, which is now a standard in the industry it operates. In his remark, Komolafe commended Rite Foods for recognising the association and what it undertakes, and also in its quest in making weightlifting an exciting sport. He extolled the brand for its laudable contribution to sports development and the donation for the enhancement of the LSWA sports centre, an initiative that would greatly impact the association’s speedy growth. He said LSWA ensures that discovered athletes are nurtured towards promoting physical fitness, mental alertness, and discipline, which are germane for healthy living towards attaining positive outing of the sport in various competitions. In his remarks, Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission, Sola Aiyepekun, affirmed that the huge support, which is an addition to what already exists, would help immensely in equipping the state’s weightlifting centre. He said the state needs the partnership of private organisations and brands like the Fearless energy drink, in making it a place where young Nigerians with sporting prowess abound. 