Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Attahiru Jega, has advised the newly elected NEC of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) to be re-dedicated to winning the 2023 general elections and rebuilding Nigeria. Jega, who is a leader of PRP in his remarks at the National Convention of the party held on Saturday in Abuja, said the party has the opportunity to win elections and rebuild Nigeria. He noted that the party’s convention that ushered in new leaders would naturally pave the way for unity in PRP and progress in the party. “It is important that as we move from this we rededicate our efforts and energies into building our party and in building our party contribute to progress and development in our country. “As a registered political party with registered members, we have a unique opportunity given the history and the antecedents of this party, the PRP, to actually contest and win elections, so that we can bring good governance to our country. “Nigeria politics has been captured and dominated, and in fact, it’s even being destroyed by people who are self-serving, who are not patriotic, who are visionless in terms of how this country can develop. “It is very important that we all as members of this progressive party dedicate our efforts to ensuring that the electoral process brings out good people in elected positions in our country. “That is the only way that we can stop the brigandage, the recklessness, and the destruction of our country by people who are self-serving and only thinking of themselves, and are not thinking about our children or grandchildren or the future of our country,” Jega said. Congratulating the newly elected NEC members of the party, Jega urged them to go back to their respective wards, local governments, and states to mobilise members for the party. “Let us go back and enlighten, let us recruit members into our party, and let us fill the good candidates so that we can really begin to change the trajectory of governance from bad to good as we move towards the 2023 elections. “I call upon the newly elected executive at the national level to continue to do the good work that they have already been doing but to also ensure that they are inclusive, that they open opportunities for greater participation by all members into the affairs of our party. “A long time ago, our mentor, our father, the late Malam Aminu Kano, said that the PRP is the party of the future, and the future begins now. “So, we must begin to dictate our efforts and the energies into building that future for our children, for our grandchildren, and in fact for many of us who are young, it’s possible to have a good future. “Our government and the state, at the local and the federal levels, have long abandoned governance and no country can develop without good governance, without good people driving good governance. “So, I urge us to go back and realise that’s really the work ahead of us is quite a lot, it may even seem difficult but it is not impossible to do it, and we should make it possible.” 