Over 60 universities will feature in the 2022 Higher Institutions Football League (HiFL), which begins this month with team registration. The organisers of the league, Pace Sports and Entertainment Marketing, yesterday, said the qualifiers would begin in May, adding that this year’s edition promises to be “more than a game” with other exciting activities lined up for the fifth edition of the games. Speaking at the unveiling of programmes for the 2022 edition, Chairman, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited, Dr. Onyekachi Onubogu, said this edition will build on the successes recorded in previous seasons, adding that the projection is to make HiFL the biggest tertiary institutions competition in Africa. “We sincerely appreciate our sponsors, Stanbic IBTC and BOLD Drinks for their esteemed support and commitment to developing the Nigerian youths and collegiate sports.” Head of Brands and Marketing at Stanbic IBTC, Mrs. Bridget Oyefeso-Odusami, in her remark, said, “this is the fourth year of our partnership with HiFL. We had committed to a partnership for five years after which it will be evaluated. It has been interesting and we are still committed to the course to which we said we will. “HiFL has done a great job so far. We realise that some of the teams that participated in the last edition of HiFL won most of the medals at this year’s NUGA Games. We will continue to do our bit in supporting youth development in Nigeria.” Elaborating on the modalities for the league, Director, PACE Sports, Sola Fijabi, said, “We will have more schools register for the league this year as we also hope to expand the offerings. We want our stakeholders to feel the vibes that HiFL has created since its inception. We appreciate the success recorded so far and we hope for more going forward. Our goal is to consistently build on the achievements of the initiative to make it a reference point for collegiate sports in Africa.” In his speech, Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) President, Prof. Stephen Hamafyelto, assured all stakeholders that the association is committed to ensuring that the 2022 HiFL season is a success. 