Ajipe picks APC nomination form for senatorial seat Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday, met with aspirants vying for the tickets of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state for the 2023 general elections. Akeredolu, who met with the aspirants at the Cocoa Conference Hall of the Governor’s Office, assured them of a level-playing ground, stressing the need to promote unity within the party. He urged the Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly aspirants to allow leadership of the party to drive the process. The governor, who also warned serving lawmakers that have not performed in their constituencies and senatorial districts to re-assess themselves before contesting for the party’s tickets again, saying: “Self-assessment is key. Go and assess yourselves. I have come here to appeal to all of you that we don’t all have to run into this election with a huge number. I know people have resigned. “I am not filling those positions until after the election. Don’t close any option. Leave all options open. The party has a stake.” Akeredolu, who noted that the party in the state is currently sailing smoothly, urged the aspirants not to heat up the polity, saying: “I can assure you that we will give a level-playing field. But assess yourselves. Sit down and think. “What have you attracted to your constituency or senatorial district as a senator or House of Representatives members? If you have not attracted anything, the people will be your judge.” Earlier, Chairman of the party in the state, Ade Adetimehin, told the aspirants that the party would be guided by principles and discipline. MEANWHILE, a chieftain of the APC and Convener of Ibi Giga Ambassadors, Chief Alex Ajipe, has picked expression of interest and nomination forms ahead of the senatorial primaries. Ajipe, who spoke with journalists at the National Headquarters of the APC shortly after collecting the forms yesterday, represented by the Director-General of his campaign organisation, Tolu Babaleye, reiterated his commitment to ensuring that the lost glory of Ondo North Senatorial District is restored. He said the plight of the people, especially women, youths and children from the rural communities of his constituency, informed his decision to hearken to the clarion calls and pleas from groups and organisations to represent the zone at the National Assembly. Ajipe said his interest was all about service to God and mankind and not just for the pleasure of political power.