Recently, a large number of female people carrying out fierce march to the National Assembly (NASS) demanding the passage of the bills intended for their interests after a greater number of legislators voted against them were stopped at the gate. Among them were some elderly women who were ignorant of the bills and their contents and, hence, were used to boost impact. The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) also participated in the protest. This is evidence that some foreign organisations provide them ideas, finances and strategies. The reported sponsor of the bills, Nkiru Onyejiocha, sought, among other things, 111 special seats in the Senate and the House, 10 slots in the federal and state ministries, 35 percent of political appointments, and 35 percent of appointments in party administration based on Affirmative Action—all exclusively for female people. The reasons which make the demands for the reversal of the result of the voting and the promise to “revisit” the bills wrong, disappointing, and condemnable are:
The voting followed established principle and practice of democracy globally. It followed established rule and procedure for voting which was applied to all bills that preceded Nkiru Onyejiocha’s bill. Therefore there was no bias against her bill. No one in the feminists groups, the Senate or the House, or among the exulted and respected men and women who condemned the result of the voting and demanded its reversal has shown that: 1) Democratic principle and practice were violated. 2) The rule and procedure for voting established by any of the chambers were violated. 3) The Distinguished and Honourable members of the Senate and the House acted maliciously. 4) To vote on the basis of emotion or favouritism is right while to vote on the basis of established principle and practice of democracy, the rule and procedure of the hallowed chambers and reason is wrong.
But to make demands exclusively for female people violates the principle and practice of democracy and gender equality. Indeed, the demands are selfish, materialistic, corrupt and corruptive. They are selfish because only female people who belong to the cult of feminism, especially those financed and used by the IMF, WB, UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, USAID, UNNGOs and US embassy, will benefit from it. They are materialistic and not spiritual or moral because they express excessive quest for political and financial power which, it is known, legislators and political appointees use to nurture their insatiable material and selfish interests with. They are corrupt because they express intention to secure permanent rights to earn very excessive, indefensible, and obnoxious multiple pecuniary and other benefits—cars, houses, etc—which legislators and political appointees enlarge their wealth with, to the detriment of national economy, development, and currency strength; the increase of the poverty and suffering of Nigerians, and the dependence of Nigerians on them. Female people should have stopped the corruption by legislators and political appointees—the greatest national interest—but they chose to increase and legalise, through the bills, their right to the corruption. Women joining men in corruption is why corruption has been increasing instead of abating. Further about the corrupt nature of the demands, Nkiru Onyejiocha did not demand action against the IMF, WB, WTO, and UNDP for progressively weakening our currency value and economy, denying us development, usurping our sovereign right, and increasing poverty, suffering, diseases and deaths since they came to Nigeria. She did not demand the refining of oil in Nigeria, satisfactory daily supply of fuel, and the cessation of the importation of fuel. She did not demand the cessation of the flaring of gas and its supply to homes through pipes. She did not demand daily supply of electric power, the provision of meter to all consumers, and the regulation of fuel and electricity costs. She did not demand active and sustained production of iron and steel. She did not demand the supply of treated and safe pipe-borne water to homes and on streets. She did not demand meeting the demands in existing hospitals, building, equipping and staffing new ones, and ending the incessant strike by medical doctors nor the provision of the necessities for the education of Nigerians, the creation of jobs and ending the incessant strike by lecturers. The bills, if passed, will corrupt absolutely, because it will embolden the feminists to demand more until they achieve their aim, that is, the power to subordinate and control men. Its material and social benefits will force non-feminists to abandon their moral, spiritual, noble, divinely established, traditional and invaluable domestic duties. Passing the bills will destroy ORDER with unimaginable consequences. The values expressed in the bills and by protesters are rooted in feminism, not womanhood. These are selfishness, deviance, boldness and obstinacy in doing wrong, disrespect for constituted authority—concerning this, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House—and hallowed symbols; forcefulness and discrimination. Womanhood is characterised by care for all—e.g, the “sit in” by women in Aba (1929) and the “sit on” by women in Abeokuta (1949) which forced the almighty British government to end its pauperising taxation and economic policies. Womanhood is also characterised by morality, spirituality, nobility, gentleness, submissiveness, respect for constituted authority, and hallowed symbols. Thus womanhood envelopes women with mystical aura which charms men, or causes men to love women, hallow them, marry and please them. Most women whose views concerning the bills and the protest were sought condemned both. One woman said, angrily: “The conduct of the female people is shameful and sullies womanhood”. It is noted that when women practiced womanhood, it was said: “When you educate a woman, you educate a nation”. Not so with feminists. Mary McLeod Bethune noted: “The true worth of one’s race (also nation) must be measured by the character of its womanhood”. Certainly, the nation which favours feminism and not womanhood, materialism and not spirituality, women in politics and the industries and not women bringing up children morally and moralising their husbands, or sets religion and morality aside, will suffer doom. Odor, independent researcher and public good promoter, wrote from Akoka, Lagos.