The Ekiti State Police Command, yesterday, paraded seven suspects in connection with the kidnapping of a student of the Federal University Oye Ekiti (FUOYE), Akomolafe Tolulope Patience, and other crimes ranging from, cultism, murder, burglary and impersonation. Addressing journalists at the state police command, the Ekiti State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Sunday Abutu said the suspects were arrested through tip off from members of the public and intensified efforts by men of the command. Giving details about the arrests, Abutu said “On April 4, 2022, at about 17:30hrs, the Command received a distress call that some suspected kidnappers were operating along Ikole-Ekiti/Ijesa-Isu-Ekiti Road. “The Command, upon the receipt of the information, deployed a team of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) to the scene for possible arrest of the suspects.” “On approaching the scene, the suspects numbering about five sighted the Police and took to their heels into the bush. Effort intensified by the operatives led to the arrest of one Aliyu Mohammed. “Items recovered from him were two barreta pistols, 40 rounds of 9mm live ammunition, three Airtel Sim packs, one Glo sim pack, one yellow hand band of Axemen Black Axe secret cult group, one military neck chain, one Army leave pass and one Army ID Card belonging to his late brother, one LCPL. “On searching the scene, another barreta pistol suspected to have been left behind by the fleeing suspects was found on the ground. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to be a gun runner who had earlier supplied a barreta pistol to one Fatai Danjuma and Ademilua Ayodele Hammed at the cost of N250, 000 in March, 2022. “Further efforts intensified by the RRS operatives led to the arrest of Fatai Danjuma in Ado-Ekiti and Ayodele Ademilua Hammed in Ayetoro-Ekiti. The two suspects confessed to be involved in the arms deal and Ademilua Ayodele Hammed claimed to have resold the pistol to one Olajide Samuel at the cost of N500, 000. “Concerted effort made by the operatives led to the arrest of Olajide Samuel at Isolo-Opin town in Kwara State and the barreta pistol in his possession was recovered. “Also on April 4, 2022 at about 1700hrs, the Command received a distress call from Mathew Street, Ado-Ekiti that a serial burglar was arrested and about to be lynched by mob. “A team of RRS personal was deployed to the scene, rescued the suspect and brought him to the station. During interrogation, the suspect confessed that he was trying to burgle a house at Embassy Area, Agric Olope, Ado-Ekiti when he was arrested. “It was discovered that the suspect escaped from lawful custody with Police handcuffs in 2021 after he was detained for an offence of burglary and stealing. He also confessed to be a serial burglar. “The suspect house was searched and one Police handcuff, one Vdigi black television set and food stuffs suspected to have been stolen were recovered.” Abutu said a suspect, Adebayo Adelanke was also paraded in connection with the robbery incident at Embassy Island Ado Ekiti, on July 25, 2021 where houses were burgled and many valuables carted away including vehicles. According to him, the suspect was indicted then by 11 suspects arrested but has been on the run since then and one of the phones stolen at the scene of the robbery was recovered from him. The PPRO said as soon as investigations were concluded, all the suspects arrested would be charged to court. Abutu enjoined all Ekiti State citizens to be security conscious, vigilant and report any untoward incident or happening observed in their locality to the nearest Police Station or call 08062335577. 