 High-fibre diets What is an ulcer? It is a sore in the stomach or the small intestine. The common sign is a pain in the upper part of the stomach. The ulcer usually takes place when the acid in the stomach ruins the lining of the digestive tract. Due to this, there is the need to pay attention to the type of foods consumed as some cause more harm than good making individuals with ulcers to experience pain and discomfort. The diet of ulcer patients varies from one individual to another. Over the cause of time, the condition can change meaning that the diet needs to be bendable to accommodate changes. Most importantly is finding out what best suits you. What will help is noting down what is consumed and how the reactions afterwards whether good or bad. This collected data helps you keep track of the ulcer to help you know what suits and does not fit into your diet plan. A well-balanced diet with enough protein, whole grains, and fresh fruits and vegetables is great for someone with an ulcer. Condition your mind that you would not be able to t everything you desire. Rather be centred on the ones that you can enjoy without spurring symptoms. Diets like a low-fibre diet every will give about 10-15 grams of fibre a day. With this, you will visit the bathroom less frequently. These are the troublemaker foods that can cause issues for people with ulcers they include: What Else Can Help? Keep your doctor and dietician in the loop of what you consume and how your body reacts. Supplements might come in handy if a balanced diet causes problems. Supplements like folic acid, calcium and vitamin B12. Consult your doctor first. It could be that smaller meals work bed for you throughout the day rather than three square big meals. When making your diet plan, they should include handy foods that can move around with you for healthy snacks. Ucler Triggering Foods Some studies show that specific nutrients may assist in combating the discomfort and swelling in your stomach stimulated by an ulcer. Scientists have researched how linoleic acid which is found in foods like eggs yolks, olive oil, walnuts, and coconut oil influences those with an ulcer. Good fat is good but keeps it moderate as it could cause inflammation when too much is consumed. Further studies indicate that omega-3 fatty acid also called EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) may fight inflammation. This good fat is said to block specific chemicals in the body known as leukotrienes. A good source of EPA is Fish oil. Another type of omega-3 found in fish is DHA. It can help tackle inflammation and is often used by individuals with an ulcer. According to research, yoghurt has probiotics which are healthy bacteria for the stomach, and alleviate inflammation.