President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Section on Public Interest and Development Law (SPIDEL), Dr. Monday Ubani, over the death of his father, Pa Egbedubi Nwokocha, aged 101 years. Pa Nwokocha died on January 3, 2022 in Lagos and will be buried at his hometown, Umuosoko, Awomukwu in Ikwuano Local Council of Abia State on the 22nd of this month. Other prominent Nigerians that have also registered condolences include Governors Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State; Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo). The rest are Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu; Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio; Minister of State for Mines and Steel, Dr. Uche Ogah; Senators Ike Ekweremadu; Enyinnaya Abaribe; Nkechi Nwaogu and Hon. Sam Onuigbo. The list equally consisted of NBA President, Olumide Akpata; President of African Bar Association, Hannibal Uwaifor; Chief Judges of Abia and Lagos states, some Justices of the Supreme Court, former presidents of the NBA and erstwhile Group Managing Director (GMD) of the defunct Diamond Bank, Alex Oti, among others. In the condolence letter dated April 11 and signed by presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, the Nigerian leader was quoted as giving glory to God for the gift of longevity, which saw Pa Nwokocha live up to 101 years. The President was also cited to have saluted the fact that the centenarian left his footprints on the sands of time, gaining reputation as a man of peace, a philanthropist, dutiful father, public-spirited individual and a man of integrity. Sympathising with Ubani, the only son of the deceased and the many grandchildren and great grandchildren, President Buhari urged them to keep the flag of the good works hoisted by their patriarch flying, knowing that in that wise, Papa Nwokocha would live forever in the hearts and minds of all who knew him. He urged the family to give the departed befitting rites of passage, as the soul of Egoro Oti marches on.