As the June 3 deadline by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for submission of names of presidential candidates of the various political parties draws near, intrigues and political calculations on how to present acceptable candidates to the electorate have been given sleepless nights to the parties’ gladiators. The choice of presidential candidates will surely be a great test of the ability of the various parties to manage crises and handle the resultant conflicts of interest. This is because the presidential ticket is perhaps the most prized laurel any member can win. And that is why in most cases, only the most valuable, influential and experienced members throw their hats into the ring.  Ismaila Gaya, a party member from Katsina State described the efforts of the consensus aspirants as a big sacrifice and a demonstration that the men are patriots, statesmen, and peacemakers.
  
He said, “The aspirants know that by initiating this consensus move, three of them might lose out as only one person will be nominated to contest in the primary proper. Yet, they went on to make public pronouncements on their efforts, thereby, foreclosing the option for any of them to back out. These men have done well and they should be treated as heroes of the PDP and today’s democracy in Nigeria”, Gaya said.
  
Another member of the PDP from Abia State, Okey Elenwo noted that the subscribers to the consensus arrangement have demonstrated their transparency and commitment by going public with their plans from the beginning and leaving no room for escape or maneouvering. “Initially, I did not believe the four men were serious about their plan. To think that they mean business gives me the impression that they are making a big sacrifice, particularly since the initiative is a voluntary move and nobody is being compelled to join. Also, the party did not impose the idea nor is any incumbent President or other external or internal force directing it. The initiators deserve kudos.”  