The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said that emerging nations of Biafra, Ambazonia and Oduduwa have concluded plans to conduct a one million-man march at European Union headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, from June 14th to 15th 2022, to inform the European Union that they are prepared to be on their own. The Media and Publicity Secretary for IPOB, Emma Powerful, disclosed that the march would involve its members, friends and lovers of freedom from across the world to reveal its predicaments to the world. In a statement, IPOB called on sons and daughters across the globe to come out en-masse to explain to the world that they are seriously in need of the three emerging nations. The statement said, “Emerging nations of Biafra, Ambazonia and Oduduwa are expected to be in Belgium on 14th and 15th of June 2022 at European Union headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, to inform the European Union that they are prepared to be on their own. “The authorities in Brüssels, Belgium, have approved our one million man march on that day for the three emerging nations in West Africa and other nations in Africa. “The protest for these emerging nations will display our need to get these nations and every Biafran, Oduduwa and Ambazonian citizens living in Europe, America, Asia and at home to be present on that day to grace the epoch event. “It will be a landmark event and we must let Europeans know the reasons we are pursuing these nations’ existence. This is to show Europe and the entire world why we need these new nations in Africa to emerge. “Therefore, our people must make sure they let the world understand our predicaments and what we are facing in the hands of Nigeria and Cameroon. “The Nigeria Government and Cameroon government are terrorists and we will not allow them to trample on our people and kill them at random. “The killings and burning of houses in these three emerging nations has gone beyond human comprehension; our people are dying every day in the hands of Nigerian and Cameroonian governments. “Our people should come out en-masse to let them know that we are seriously in need of these three emerging nations”.