• ‘Ladan Bosso Was Recommended By Technical Committee’
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has called on Nigerians, who are calling for the removal of the newly appointed coach of Super Eagles B team, otherwise known as CHAN Eagles and the U-23 Olympic team, Salisu Yusuf, over his involvement in a bribe scandal in 2018, to shelve the idea.
 
NFF First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, told The Guardian at Remo Stadium, Ikenne, venue of the 2022 MTN/NPFL/La Liga U-15 football tournament, that those painting the football house black for bringing Yusuf back to his national coaching job need to have a rethink. 
 
He said; “Yusuf has served his punishment and there is nothing wrong in re-appointing him.”  Since his re-appointment last week, many Nigerians have tongue-lashed the Amaju Pinnick-led NFF, saying that Yusuf has no reason whatsoever to come near national coaching job. Some football analysts also carpeted the NFF saying that it is breeding corrupt coaches.
 
But the NFF first vice president insists there is nothing wrong with the decision to re-appoint Yusuf. “There was an issue, not of bribery, but indiscretion,” Akinwunmi explained. “Yusuf served his term and it has expired.” Asked if the NFF is not encouraging other coaches to take bribe with the reappointment of Yusuf, Akinwunmi responded: “The fact that he was banned for a while over an offense is enough to serve as deterrent to other coaches.” On the reappointment of Ladan Bosso as coach of the Flying Eagles despite failing with the same team in recent past, Akinwunmi said; “Bosso was recommended to us by the Technical Committee. They are in a better position to answer such question. Meanwhile, Akinwunmi has urged players featuring in the 2022 edition of the MTN/NPFL/La Liga U-15 football tournament at Remo Stadium to use the opportunity to make good career for themselves. He also tasked the young lads to make friends because, according to him, outside football, there is life. Akinwunmi revealed that about five or six players in the present Super Eagles squad are close to their retirement age, and the U-15 football tournament would serve as an avenue to pick replacements for them.