Deputy Director of Education, GreenSprings School, Dr. Barney Wilson, has emphasised the importance of sports in academics, saying both are imperative for all round development of the child. Wilson noted that academic and sports work together to stimulate the brain and body, resulting in total development of the child. Besides, he stated that academics should not be limited to the four walls of a classroom alone. Wilson, who stated this at the inter house sports of GreenSprings School, Anthony, Lagos, held at Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, said: “You can’t just develop in the classroom alone because an all-round development of pupils is key. We know that students, particularly children from pre-school to secondary school need to start moving. Many are stuck in their houses or classrooms but at Greensprings School, we make sure that we keep moving all the time.” He enjoined public and private institutions to work together to save sports, particularly in private schools, from going extinct. Chief Executive Officer of the school, Mrs. Lai Koiki, said although the primary focus of schooling is academics, Greensprings gives priority attention to sports as well. “Sport instills many important life lessons, such as discipline, focus, dedication, hardwork, commitment, perseverance, team work, honesty and responsibility.  Students that embrace sports early in life are agile and fit, which in turn, improves the cognitive and memory functions of the brain, while helping them perform better in their studies.” Chairperson, Parents Teachers Association (PTA) activities committee, Yemisi Adeboyejo, urged parents to encourage their wards participate in sporting activities. She said: “Parents should encourage their children to take part in physical education and when there are activities like these, our children should be encouraged to take part more in athletics for their physical well-being.” The competition, which was held for the first time in two years due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was attended by parents, teachers and invited schools. At the end of the event, Moremi house won the ultimate prize, topping the medal table with 46 medals; 17 gold, 14 silver, and15 bronze.