The Federal Government, (FG), has declared Monday 2nd and Tuesday 3rd May 2022 as public holidays to mark this year’s Workers Day and Eid-il-Fitr celebrations. Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the declaration in a statement  signed by the permanent secretary of the ministry, Dr. Shuaib Belgore, on Thursday While congratulating workers across the country on this year’s celebration, Aregbesola commended workers for their hard work, diligence and sacrifice, noting that their efforts are largely responsible for the greatness of the country and the respect Nigeria now commands in the comity of nations. According to him, “Labor is the very essence of humanity. We are alive because we work and only the dead are incapable of working.” He enjoined all workers across the country to imbibe the culture of productivity, because “The end of work is productivity. It is productivity that leads to the satisfactory provision of goods and services and wealth creation. It is, therefore, the path to national and individual prosperity.” The minister also urged workers to raise the bar of their trade-in in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration’s drive to rev up the vehicle of governance and make all the people of Nigeria derive maximum benefit from the nation. Also congratulating all Muslims for the successful completion of the holy month of Ramada, Aregbesola called on all of them to exemplify and practice the virtues of kindness, love, tolerance, peace, self-denial, sacrifice and good neighbourliness, as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon Him). “The self-restraint, self-denial, sacrifice and deep spiritual consciousness that accompanied the fasting period should not end but be maintained and improved upon, in order to be a better person and true worshipper,” he advised. Expresses confidence that the security challenges in some parts of the country will soon be a thing of the past, he said that the government is putting efforts and putting all necessary measures in place for Nigerians to enjoy unfettered peace all around. Aregbesola assured all that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is fully committed to the security of life and property of every citizen and foreigners alike calling everyone to be part of the nation’s security architecture by being vigilant and reporting suspicious individuals and activities to law enforcement agencies nearest to them, noting that security is everybody’s responsibility. 