An aspirant for the Adamawa North Senatorial District seat on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hamisu Medugu, has assured the people of a new hope and rebirth of excellent representation at the National Assembly, if he is voted into office.
  
Medugu said his tenure would be characterised by innovative ideas that will give the people peace, provision of socio-economic development and effective legislative functions.
  
He gave the assurance during his declaration and expression of intention to be their servant, while touring local governments under the senatorial district.  Present at the declaration were members of the party from Mubi North, Mubi South, Maiha, Michika, and Madagali local government areas.
  
Party members commended Hamisu’s political moves, which they noted has endeared him to the people’s heart, especially for his philanthropic activities.
  
They maintained that Hamisu is the first ‘genuine’ aspirant to declare his intention, while describing his move as timely. 
  
Specifically, an APC chieftain, Yugudu Abubakar, who spoke on behalf of the party officials described Hamisu as a young man with a passion to change the narratives in the interest of everyone in the constituency.
  
On his part, Hamisu’s Campaign Director General, Usman Bukar said it is time for the people to experience a hopeful representation.
  
“Hamisu has been a tireless philanthropist. His support for women and youth in the area of job creation, scholarships for indigent students and empowerment programmes for the residents across the five local governments is noteworthy.”
  
Bukar urged party members to vote Hamisu at the forthcoming APC primary elections, saying that he has been tested and trusted, for his contributions to the development of not only Adamawa North but also Adamawa State at large.
 
He said his reason for deciding to work for Hamisu as his Campaign Director is because of his disposition to working for the masses as a young man with the heart of gold and high sense of maturity. 