• Claims God gave him go ahead Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, has been pressured to run for the 2023 presidential election by crowd of jubilant supporters who thronged the Amansea border between Anambra State and Ugwuoba, Oji River Local Council Area of Enugu State.  The supporters had blocked his passage until he met their demand to join the Presidential race this year. Ngige, who appeased them, told the crowd populated mostly by members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), that after his fasting, God spoke to him to join the race, amid thunderous ovation of “Onwa! Onwa!!”	      Continuing, he explained that he would officially declare his intention to contest the 2023 Presidential election tomorrow having heard from God. “I want to assure you that the period of Lent ended last night, and throughout the period, we communed with God. We did spiritual exercises and fasted. We talked to God and His Angels and God has talked back to us. God has spoken to me. I want to assure the people that I will not disappoint you. I will speak to you in the language you will understand,” he said. He recalled that as the governor of Anambra State for 34 months, he achieved more than those who spent eight years in office, faulting people who he make a great mistake comparing him with Peter Obi and Willie Obiano. According to him, within those 34 months, he did better than them. Ngige noted that he would replicate the good works he did in the state as governor at the national level, if given the opportunity to serve as the President. He disclosed that he did not only lay the foundation of the new Anambra State, but also built houses, edifices, schools and other facilities in the state, in addition to payment of pensions as and when due. “I want to be your ambassador in Nigeria. We will work as we did in Anambra if the Nigerian people give us a chance. I will work as I did in the senate if Nigerians give us the chance. We will also work as I have been working as a minister of labour and productivity over the years,” he said. He told the teeming crowd that he had met all the governors in the South East who, according to him, have accepted to support his bid. 