The newly sworn-in judges of the Federal High Court, and the FCT High Court have been admonished on the need to be fair and upright in administration of Justice. The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Mohammad Musa Bello and the Chief judge of the FCT, Justice Husseini Baba-Yusuf gave the advice at the dinner held in honour of one of the newly sworn-in judges, Justice Mabel Taiye Segun-Bello Represented by Justice S. C. Oriji of the FCT, the CJ urged the judges to be upright in justice delivery to enhance preservation of individual integrity and that of the bench. The CJ of the FCT High Court specifically urged the new judges to imbibe the character of an incorruptible judge and be known as such to earn the trust of parties who would appear in their courts. Represented by permanent secretary of the FCT, Dr Adesola Olusade, the FCT minister, Mohammed Musa Bello, called for continuous elevation of lawyers with proven qualities to the bench. He said: “For my lord, (Justice Mabel Taiye Segun-Bello), she has demonstrated herself a shining star in her work at FCT, while serving as Chief Magistrate, especially in the recent pioneering of the first digital affidavit in the FCT court.” Justice Mabel Taiye Segun-Bello who was a chief magistrate at the FCT court was one of the key brains that facilitated the launch of the electronic affidavit application system – (e-affidavit) – to replace the earlier manual process that has been adjudged inefficient. Also a senior lawyer, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) tasked the new judge on diligence and fairness in justice delivery. He said: “We are celebrating diligence today. If Nigeria must survive, the judiciary must first of all survive. The judiciary is battered.” The learned SAN also urged the new judges to be godly and administer justice in line of truth and of good conscience, and shun all ungodly demands of favours from acquaintances. Justice Segun-Bello acknowledged the task ahead and urged for prayers of all for success, promising to be guided by the letter and words of the oath of office. Earlier at the swear in ceremony, Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed warned that the National Judicial council (NJC) will never rest in the efforts to fish out the bad eggs within the judiciary and show them the way out. Justice Muhammad said corrupt judges can only run but will not have the capacity to hide from the long arm of the disciplinary apparatus of the NJC. “As I always say, appointment to the bench is not an appointment to affluence, influence or unholy alliance with people of questionable character that may appear before you in different guises and make you do what is offensive to the law. “You must shun unmerited wealth, dishonest disposition and never should you engage in any act that may make you regret ever being a judicial officer,” he warned. The CJN said though judges are not known to possess supernatural powers to perform wonders, but the new judges must be prepared for demands to do impossible from the society. Justice Muhammad charged the new Judges to be ready to hear more especially during 2023 general elections, adding that though he rejoiced with them, he also sympathised with them for the troubles, inconveniences and all sort of uncomplimentary remarks that may be made against them by litigants in the course of adjudications. “We are all humans, no doubt, but you must display the humanism in you by doing those extraordinary things that people would say you cannot do. That is what distinguishes those with integrity and passion for success from those with unenviable pedigree and dysfunctional moral compass,” he advised. The incumbent Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court, Mr. Emmanuel Gakko, Bala Khalifa-Mohammed Usman, Aminu Garba, Musa Suleiman Liman, Ahmad Gama Mahmud, Segun-Bello Mabel Taiye and Joseph Adebayo Aina were the seven judges sworn-in, six judges for the Federal High Court, one for the FCT High Court, Abuja. 