• Zulum seeks prayers to end terrorism in Borno
• NGOs task govt to open farms for ‘repentant’ terrorists A notorious terrorist in Zamfara State, known as Nasanda, has given the state government 14 days to pay him N30 million as compensation for the alleged killing of his wife and two other relations. He threatened to kill 300 people, if his demand was not met. Nasanda alleged that some vigilante men in the state killed his bride, her uncle and aunt. Reacting to the development, convener of Concerned Nigerians, Mr. Deji Adeyanju, lamented the audacity of criminals to make open threats against citizens in a country with equipped security apparatus. He urged the government to ensure that Nasanda and his gang were arrested for all the terror attacks they carried out in the state, to serve as a deterrent to his ilk. IN Borno State, Governor Babagana Zulum has sought prayers with deep reflection on the key messages of Easter to end terrorism and loss of life and property. According to him, the people’s prayers and reflections align with the state government’s programme on Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration (DDR) of 35,000 surrendered terrorists and their families. Zulum spoke, yesterday, in Maiduguri, in a state-wide broadcast to felicitate with Christians for Easter in Borno. “Christians should fervently pray for success of insurgents’ mass surrender from Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad region,” he said, adding that the insurgents in the Mandara Hills of Gwoza Council would also surrender with the prayers and the 40 days fasting by Christians. BUT Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has once more lambasted the governor for “pampering” the ‘repentant’ Islamic gangsters in Borno State rather than concentrate on delivering social justice to the victims of terrorism. The Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) condemned the constant focus in the media on the promotion of the economic and social affairs of terrorists by Zulum’s administration rather than on the victims. A statement issued yesterday in Abuja, by the National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, proposed the construction of a mini correctional centre by the state government in Sambisa forest, and a farm settlement for the ‘repentant’ terrorists. ALSO, Conflict Management Mitigation Regional Council (CMMRC), Plateau State chapter, a Community Initiative to Promote Peace (CIPP) project, has condemned the recent attacks in Kanam Local Council of Plateau State where 10 villages were sacked, leaving no fewer than 100 persons dead. The Jos-based NGO, in a statement signed by its Secretary, Sadeeq Hongs, yesterday, condemned the gruesome attacks particularly the killing of the elderly, women and children as well as massive abduction. It also carpeted the recent destruction of life and property in Bassa, Jos North and Barkin Ladi local councils. CMMRC, therefore, called on the state government to swing into action to investigate the ugly incidents and bring the perpetrators to justice. It added: “We urge the citizens to keep calm, maintain law and order and conduct themselves peacefully as they ventilate their grievances on the current state of affairs in their domains.” 