All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant and leader of the Middlebelt Presidency agitations, Moses Ayom, has called for the review and reduction of the ₦100 million fees for the nomination forms of the ruling party. He also called for prayers to guide the Adamu-led National Working Committee to exhibit equity, fairness, and justice as their guiding principle and not do anything that will affect the zone. Ayom, who had recently condemned the price for the purchase of the ₦21million APC chairmanship nomination form on ARISE TV, had also raised an alarm about the plot to disenfranchise the middle belt region by raising the presidential nomination form to an unaffordable level. The aspirant said that in view of the harsh global economic realities, the ruling APC and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) must not take decisions that could worsen the economic conditions of the people that which government represents. “First, the new and re-branded Adamu-led National Working Committee of the APC must be seen to be in strict compliance with global finance and economy bearing in mind that the World is still crumbling and has not fully recovered from the Covid-19 damage. Indeed places like Shaghai are still battling with another lock down,” Ayom said. “The ongoing fierce UKRAINE/ RUSSIA war which is fast having a toll on the world economy even more than the COVID are enough reasons for the Adamu-led NWC to take a pause on and reduce the nomination fee drastically.” Ayom said he will commence serious fasting and prayers to plead with God to change the minds of the APC to reduce the fee for the nomination form. He urged the Adamu-led NWC of the APC to reject the temptation of embracing “commercial democracy” as introduced and practiced by the PDP. According to Ayom, Nigerians were outraged and condemned the N40 million charged by the PDP for the presidential nomination form. It will amount to double jeopardy for the ruling APC to support the same policy by even increasing the fee to N100 million. Ayom noted that the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that the APC ticket should not be handed over to the highest bidder should be strictly complied with. “With the fixing of N100 million fee for the presidential nomination form, it is obvious that only the money bags would aspire while other potential good leaders have been blocked,” Ayom said. “How do we reconcile the president’s directive that APC ticket should not be handed over to the highest bidder and then on the other hand the NWC have fixed the forms only for the highest bidder. There is something wrong somewhere.” 