Pepsi has announced sponsorship support for the second edition of the DStv Premium Golf Day billed for Ikeja Golf Club on April 23.
 
According to the organisers, Flykite Productions, over 100 golfers, out of 500 registrants, from clubs across the country will participate at the event. The golfers are expected to play with only four clubs and a putter and winners will emerge via a stroke play format.
Flykite Productions also disclosed that the first prize at the event is a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel, while the second prize is a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, for a weekend stay at five-star hotel. The third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos. Chairman of the DStv Premium Golf Day Organising Committee, Akin Areola, expressed delight at the sponsorship support provided by DStv and Pepsi, saying it marks them out as genuine supporters of sports in general, golf in particular, as well as healthy living in the country.
 
“We are especially delighted that these corporate giants, DStv and Pepsi, are supporting this event. It also indicates that they are committed to the promotion of healthy living and are shining examples that other corporate organisations should follow. DStv and Pepsi, it is important to say, have always been prominent supporters of various sports in the country,” said Areola, who is also a former captain of Ikeja Golf Club.
 
Giving reasons for DStv’s sponsorship of the event, Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, Tope Osunkeye, said golf is a sport that is popular among DStv Premium subscribers, who have access to the world’s most glamorous golf tournaments via a dedicated channel.
 
“We are delighted to be involved in this event with Ikeja Golf Club and we believe that our involvement will further strengthen our relationship with our Premium subscribers, as well as those who love and play the game. “We understand that golf tournaments provide enormous thrill for our DStv Premium subscribers through some of the most important games. It is the reason we are providing this sponsorship support.”
 
General Manager, Marketing (Beverages), Seven-Up Bottling Company. Segun Ogunleye, described Pepsi’s involvement in the DStv Premium Golf Day as another step in the company’s contribution to sports in Nigeria. “Pepsi is proud to partner with DStv on the DStv Premium Golf Day and happy to refresh the many golfers participating in the competition,” Ogunleye said. 
 
The DStv Premium Golf Day debuted in November 2020 at Ikeja Golf Club and featured 99 golfers from clubs across the country. Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo of Ikeja Golf Club won the first prize, while Messrs. Remi Olukoya and Rasheed Adebisi won the second and third prizes respectively. 