 BANGKOK, THAILAND – APRIL 21: A customer holds a plate of mango sticky rice at a night market on April 21, 2022 in Bangkok, Thailand. Thailand hopes that the international attention on the dish will push it to be listed on UNESCO’s intangible cultural heritage list. (Photo by Lauren DeCicca/Getty Images) You might not be have any origin as being a Thai person but this dessert is easy and a must try to spice up your culinary skills for your home. Mango sticky rice is a tropical dessert dish known to Thai people. This wonderful dessert just needs a few super ripe mangoes, some sticky rice, canned coconut milk, and brown sugar. It’s considered an exceptional choice when thinking of a quick dessert to make. Mango sticky rice is also known as Khao niaow ma muang is the native language or can be referred to as glutinous rice. It’s also famous as street food and can also be gotten in Thai restaurants. Perhaps on the next trip to Thailand mango sticky rice should top the menu options of foods to try out when in Thailand. Ingredients Method 1. Wash the rice in a bowl until the water is clear and no more white or cloudy. Then soak rice in a bowl with cold water to cover and leave overnight. This is to ensure that the grains cook and absorb moisture evenly. Sticky rice once steamed, the grains of glutinous rice becomes tender but maintain a distinct chew. 2. Sift rice in a sieve and set the sieve over a large deep saucepan of simmering water. Make sure the sieve does not touch the water and steam rice, covered with a kitchen towel and a lid, periodically checking the water level. Leave for 30 to 40 minutes. 3. In the meantime that the rice is cooking pour one cup of coconut milk into a pot or saucepan and boil adding in ⅓ sugar and salt and stir while boiling till the sugar and salt melt in then set aside. 4. The rice should be ready and then pour into a bowl and turn in the coconut milk mix. Leave for 30 minutes until the rice fully absorbs it. 5. While that is happening in a pan boil the leftover coconut milk, adding in the remaining sugar (3 tablespoons) stirring constantly for a minute or two. Move the sauce to a bowl to cool down at which it thickens in texture. 6. Mango sticky rice is ready to serve with the sauce splashed with sesame seeds and sliced up mangoes on one a plate. Now you feel like a Thai head chef. Now feeling like a head chef, serve mango sticky rice with the coconut sauce splashed with sesame seeds and sliced up mangoes on one plate all drenched with sweet sauce and have this Thai dessert take you to the world of Southeast Asia wherever you are.  