Four days after the Kaduna-Abuja train bombing, the Nigerian Air Force attack jet, on Wednesday, reportedly killed no fewer than 34 terrorists in a forest between Kaduna and Niger states. Military sources said those eliminated were allegedly behind the violence. A source said: “Upon receiving credible information that at about 2:00p.m on March 30, 2022, about 70 terrorists on 40 motorcycles and some on foot, were sighted moving towards Akilibu-Sarkin Pawa Road, near Mangoro Village. The air component of Operation Thunder Strike swiftly scrambled an aircraft to intercept and neutralise the terrorists. Similarly, troops of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), under Operation Lake Sanity (OPLS) in the North East, eliminated dozens of insurgents in the Lake Chad region. The rebels were slaughtered during a clearance operation in the area bordering Chad, Cameroun, Nigeria and Niger. A counter-terrorism expert, Zagazola Makama, yesterday, in Maiduguri, stated that the exercise was to rout the remnants of Boko Haram and the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) insurgents from the fringes of the Lake and Basin. According to him, the counter-terrorism operations are yielding positive results to restore peace in the Lake Chad region. He said during the March 28 joint operations, 21 women and 20 children were rescued by the troops. Besides, he added that the communities of Cemente, Bagadaza, Zanari and Wulgo in Ngala council area of Borno State were also cleared of terrorists during the expedition. On the incessant attacks, he said: “There were two encounters with the Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists at the Zanari hideouts,” stating that the twin attack was decisively dealt with. He noted that this forced some of the outlaws to flee with gunshot wounds towards Lake Chad. Items recovered included two gun trucks, 18 motorcycles, while 22 bicycles were destroyed. Other weapons got back comprised two rocket-propelled grenade tubes, three rocket-propelled grenade bombs, an NBST gun, two machine guns, three GPMG belts and a rifle magazine with 600 rounds of ammunition. 