• Bishop urges end to FG-ASUU crisis, NUC accredits Kano varsity’s courses The two-week warning strike by the Non-Academic Staff Union and Associated Institutions (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) was extended by two weeks due to Federal Government’s inaction. Spokesman for the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of both unions, Peters Adeyemi, told The Guardian, yesterday, in Abuja, that the current administration had not shown readiness to engage the two non-teaching staff associations. In a circular to NASU and SSANU branch chairmen in universities and inter-university centres with reference number JAC/NS/VOL.II/224, dated 21st April 2022, the JAC said the latest circular was sequel to the ones with numbers JAC/NS/VOL. II/210 and JAC/NS/VOL.II/220 dated 25th March 2022 and 8th April 2022 in respect of the two weeks’ warning strike, which “ended early this morning (Monday).” The first warning strike of two weeks began midnight of Sunday, 27th March 2022, while the extension of another two weeks, that commenced on Sunday, 10th April 2022, expired midnight of Sunday, 24th April 2022. The committee claimed that the government had remained indifferent to the demands of the two unions. The circular, which was jointly signed by SSANU National President, Mohammed Ibrahim and the scribe, Adeyemi, added: “Deriving from the feedback received from our branches in respect of the resolutions, which fully supported the ongoing strike and other actions to be taken by the leadership of JAC, this is to inform members that the strike has been extended by one month to commence midnight of Sunday, 24th April 2022, pending when the government would have a change of heart and be favourably disposed to our demands, as highlighted in our letters dated 1st March  and 16th March, 2022 to representative of the government and Honourable Minister of Labour and Employment.” Adeyemi accused the minister, Dr. Chris Ngige, of only engaging the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU).  His words: “I think the government has decided not to talk to us – both NASU and SSANU. The chief conciliator, Dr. Ngige has been talking to only ASUU.” On dragging ASUU to court, the NASU secretary observed:  “Ngige is very conversant with labour rules, and is unlikely to approach the court of law over the lingering industrial crisis in the universities.” SIMILARLY, Catholic Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, Felix Ajakaye, has appealed to ASUU and the President Muhammadu administration to resolve their lingering misunderstanding in the interest of students, parents and Nigeria. He made the call during the funeral mass in honour of the immediate past vice chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Prof. Adebiyi Daramola, at St Peters Catholic Church Okemesi, Ekiti State, at the weekend. In his homily, the cleric said the fight between the two elephants was discomforting to students and parents.
BESIDES, the National Universities Commission (NUC) has granted Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, full accreditation of 21 academic programmes spanning across five faculties. The approval was consequent upon inspection and validation of the institution’s manpower resource and modern facilities for the training of highly skilled undergraduates. A letter, signed by NUC’s Executive Secretary, Prof. Abubakar Abdulrasheed, said the full academic credence was valid for the next five years.