The national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Victor Oye has said former Anambra State governor Peter Obi will not “achieve anything politically” until he returns to the party. Obi was a member of the APGA when he was elected twice as the governor of Anambra State. He defected to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in October 2014 and became running mate to PDP’s Atiku Abubakar in the 2019 presidential elections. Obi announced last month that he will be contesting to be elected the party’s candidate in the 2023 presidential election. But Oye said Obi’s dream will not come to fruition until he returns to the party. “I said it that time, and I still repeat it: unless Peter Obi, my brother, returns to APGA, he will not achieve anything politically,” Oye told Channels Television. “He knows. He took a vow that he will never leave APGA. “He left APGA and joined PDP. He was the vice president [candidate] to Atiku. Now, he is going for the presidency. It will be a catastrophic exercise; it will not work.” Oye insisted that the vow Obi took while he was still a member of APGA will continue to work against him except he honours it. “[A vow] is a covenant between you and your God,” Oye said. “Anytime you make a covenant with God, see to it. If you fail, you will face the consequences.” “I did not mean a cult orientation when I said that Peter Obi vowed never to leave APGA till death do them part,” Oye told Arise TV in November 2021. “What I said was an open thing and there is a video to that effect. For me, I believe in covenant. He made a covenant with God and not with APGA; is APGA God? He said he will never leave APGA until death does them part. That was what he said, it is open, I have the video.” Obi was first elected the governor of Anambra State in 2003 as the candidate of APGA. His opponent, Chris Ngige, who was the candidate of the PDP then, was declared the winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). A Court of Appeal nullified Ngige’s victory on March 15, 2006, and declared Obi the winner of the 2003 election, three years after. He was later impeached in November of the same year by the state house of assembly. His challenge of impeachment was successfully and sworn in again on May 17, 2007. He left the office again on May 29, 2007, the day being the end of the tenure of the election he won in 2003. But Obi went to court again over his inability to complete his tenure due to his victory being initially given to Ngige and his impeachment which was voided by the court. The Supreme Court of Nigeria upheld Obi’s contention on June 14, 2007, and returned him to the office to complete his first four-year term. He contested for reelection in 2010, also as the candidate of APGA, and won. 