 Skincare | Photo: Heart of the Desert Getting the perfect skin is not an easy task, especially for people with sensitive skin. From spending money buying different products to occasionally watching YouTubers offer absurd tips, the skincare journey can be sometimes exhausting and frustrating. It feels like a wasted effort when, after diligently using products like toners, moisturizers, and serums, there is no improvement in your skin. Instead, your skin is worse than before. At this moment, different questions pop up in your head about what went wrong. Let’s provide some answers to that. There is a limit to how much your skin can handle, so try not to overdo it when it comes to using skin products. And by overdo, we mean having a bogus ritual where you apply over ten products to your face within a time frame of thirty minutes. Limit your skin ritual to just four products, consisting of the essentials: serum, cleanser, moisturizer, and sunscreen. Fake products are no strangers to the skincare industry, so if you want to improve your skin, not destroy it, steer clear of them. You might be thinking, how do I identify fake products? This is where research comes in. Before you take out the money to pay for a product, go online and confirm if the product picture on the brand’s website is similar to what you are about to purchase. If yes, buy it. If no, walk away. So, when next your toner isn’t giving you the glow you wished for after using it for two years, pay a quick visit to Google. This act probably best explains why the hundred-thousand-naira serum you bought isn’t clearing up that acne. Quite a number of us are guilty of this unsanitary art. The fact is that our hands contain bacteria due to the many dirty surfaces we touch. This means that for someone who likes touching his/her face without properly washing his/her hands, those bacteria are transferred to the face. The point is, don’t touch your face. As odd as it sounds, that product you think is not working may need more time to be fully effective. One thing about Nigerians is that we are always in a haste to get quick results. The journey to a perfect skin takes time, and patience is an important tool to be armed with. Give that product time before completely condemning it. Dear skin product users, stick to one brand. For example, a person who decides to buy a Nivea moisturizer, Cerave cleanser, The Ordinary serum, and a face toner might find it hard to see results. Stick to buying all your skin essentials from one brand; it helps boost results.