A mentorship-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Century 21 Freedom Group International (CC21FG), said it would expose 50,000 Nigerians to financial freedom by enabling them to generate sufficient cash flow to live their dreamed life by 2024. The organisation is working through a project tagged La Buena Vida, which took off in Abuja in 2016 and extended its presence to Lagos and other Nigerian cities. As part of its process of expanding its presence in Lagos, CC21FG has commenced a series of cashflow summit. The first edition was held at the University of Lagos at the weekend. A national leader of the group, Ambassador Sharon Entonu, said the organisation intends to host the event monthly throughout the year. She said the project had produced over 5,000 millionaires since its inception and hoped it would exceed its target in the next two years as it doubles its outreach in Lagos and other cities. Over 2,000 participants, comprising young graduates and artisans turned up for the Lagos maiden summit. Entonu said 200 to 400 individuals would be selected after the training for a mentorship programme that would unlock their ability to create wealth. She said it is time people understood that money has left offices and paid careers and moved to the digital ecosystem, stressing that the mentorship focused on the way new wealth is created. She said: “We operate in the connected and digital economy. When you look at the world the way money is being made has changed. The money has left the offices, and the salary is no longer enough. As a result of the pandemic, a lot of people lost their jobs and businesses.” “There is a paradigm shift, but there are some people still dwelling in the past. As an organisation that is into mentorship, we are here using the connected and digital economy to show people how to scale up their income and venture into the global market; raise funds, an extra source of income, to supplement whatever thing they are earning.” Speaking on the achievement of the group so far, Sharon said people have been able to “raise funds to finance their dream projects, set up new businesses, embark on vacation abroad and buy their dreamed cars”. According to her, the summit held in Lagos is to triple the success recorded so far by the group. She said the selected individuals would be assigned mentors and that they would start “seeing amazing results in their cash flow in the next couple of months”.