*Argues no one contesting contributed to democracy more than him Former Lagos State Governor, and All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has said Nigeria needs him just as he needs Nigeria, maintaining that he has contributed more than any other persons contesting for presidency. Speaking at a one-day event tagged retrospecting democratic journey in Nigeria for speakers, deputy speakers, ex-speakers and ex-deputy speakers of state House of Assembly themed: ‘The Legislature, Changing Times and Nigeria’s Democratic Journey’ Tinubu said Nigeria has all it takes, brilliance, resources, focus but lack the knowhow to run the race and the gear of progress. He stated that his joy will not be full if Nigeria’s passport is not one he would be proud of, stating that he was pushing for the support of the former speakers and their deputies for him to be elected president of Nigeria in 2023 he has all it takes to take make Nigeria prosper. According to him, he has done it in the past in Lagos and can replicate it with Nigeria as a whole. “As I need Nigeria, Nigeria needs me,” Tinubu said. “I have been a good example of grit, daring, and resourceful and I have never lost a single election. In the face of tyranny, I have survived the struggle for democracy; the twist and turns of it, including leaving in exile. “I have contributed immensely more than any other person running today. I equally have it better when it comes to legislative experience, I am married to a senator, and I have allowed her to practice her religion.” He implored the visiting legislators not to stand alone, but stay, glued and bonded to be one, because the task to make Nigeria one is a task to be done and he could do it. The chairman of Conference of Speakers in Nigeria Legislatures, and Bauchi State Speaker, Abubakar Suleiman, noted that members of the state assembly are critical stakeholders in democracy as the most closet to the people. Suleiman described Tinubu as a great leader with character and sacrifice, who places premium on the welfare of party members. “We are well abreast of your aspiration of wanting to be president of Nigeria and as legislators we would be willing to work with you if given the opportunity to be part of this struggle. The nation is in the most trying time, insecurity and harsh economic conditions and with you they are surmountable.” The governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, thanked the speakers and their deputies for coming. He noted that they are real foot political soldiers urging them to take the message to town that the man they are all looking for has come. Sanwo-Olu said Tinubu has the capacity to do a lot that for Nigeria because he has a whole lot to give the country.