The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) have commended APM Terminals Apapa’s new digitalised administrative building, which is part of the company’s $438 million investment in the Port’s Complex Apapa. The commissioning of the new smart building, which took place at the terminal, on Tuesday, is in line with APM Terminals’ commitment to introducing innovations to help both shipping lines and landside customers achieve improved supply chain efficiency and flexibility cost-effectively. The Managing Director of NPA, Mohammed Bello-Koko, commended APM Terminals for raising the standards of port operation in Nigeria and adding immense value to the system in the past 16 years. Bello-Koko expressed gratitude to the terminal operators for paying attention to exports, particularly now that the Federal Government is focused on growing the non-oil and agro-business sectors. The Zonal Coordinator, Zone A, NCS, Assistant Comptroller-General Modupe Aremu, represented by Comptroller Queen Ogbudu, also commended APM Terminals for setting the pace in terminal operations in Nigeria. Speaking earlier at the event, the Global Chief Operating Officer (COO) of APM Terminals, Keith Svendsen, said the new building will set a new standard for port operation. Svendsen said the technology embedded in the new building will improve container handling operations and processing in the terminal, particularly in enabling electronic invoicing, electronic receipt and online payment processes that allow customers to fast-track their documentation. He said: “What is more important is to make sure that we are ready for the future. A port is one of the infrastructures that take years to plan and build. This is why we are working to make it better and get ready for the future,” Svendsen said. Also speaking, the Country Managing Director of APM Terminals Nigeria, Klaus Laursen, said APM Terminals has invested a total of $438 million in enabling the developing infrastructure, acquiring equipment and improving processes at the terminal in Apapa. “The aim is to make APM Terminals Apapa a better trade and logistics zone. We just have to be better and improve every day by investing in our people and infrastructure to have a smarter and digitalised business that serves the need of our customers and the country at large,” he said. Others present at the event include the Port Manager, Lagos Port Complex Apapa, Olufunmilayo Olotu; the Commissioner of Police Apapa Port, Jonathan Towuru, the chief executives of shipping lines, as well as the representatives of Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Apapa Customs Command, and the Police Maritime Command. 