Accuses perpetrators of targeting only APC members’ property Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has accused those accusing President Muhammadu Buhari, of being those really behind the banditry in Imo State and Nigeria. He, also, urged the accusers to stop blaming him and the president for the spate of terrorism in the country. Speaking on Monday at the wedding ceremony of the son of Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Chinedu, at the Anglican Cathedral Transfiguration of Our Lord (CATOL), Owerri, Uzodimma wondered why the attackers in the state attacked the property of the members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), leaving that of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying that the perpetrators should desist and beg for forgiveness before they are punished by God. Uzodimma accused those he called “wicked politicians” of holding the state captive, killing and burning the homes and property of the innocent Imo citizens, using politics as their motives.
He had also on  Easter Sunday, his country home church, at St. Rose of Lima Catholic Church, Ozuh, Omuma, Oru East Local Council, Imo State, urged the congregation to pray for such people to change their hearts, describing them as “Soulless persons contriving the politically minded violence.” He said: “I pray that God will touch the hearts of these people who are sponsoring the killing of innocent ones, burning houses and destroying public property in the name of politics.”
He regretted that the last weekend’s incident, which took place in Ogberuru in Orlu, had all the victims, Ward Chairman, Ward Secretary and Woman leader, of the APC political fold. He continued: “I have crosschecked since the inception of this mindless blood letting in Orlu, Orsu and other communities in the zone, not one PDP person has died, their houses burnt or attacked. It is clear to me, therefore, that these killings are the handiwork of politicians who are after the APC members.” He restated that his administration was strong with the zeal to tackle the large-scale violence of bloodletting and destruction in the state, warning that such must stop henceforth. Uzodimma wondered how, the “burning of police stations, local government headquarters and the killing of innocent and hapless citizens could help advance the course or aspiration of any politician.” The governor promised “not to betray the confidence reposed in him by Imo people, who entrusted him with their mandate.” He pledged that his administration would pursue policies that will “bring joy, prosperity and development to the State.”