Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated Lagosians on the commemoration of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, urging Christians to emulate his virtues of humility, perseverance and compassion. The governor also charged Christian residents to continue to live in peace and harmony with adherents of other faiths, noting that good neighbourliness, selflessness and patience were among the several lessons Jesus taught and exemplified. Sanwo-Olu, in his Easter message, yesterday, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, implored Nigerians, especially Christians to use the occasion to seek the face of God for continuous peace in Lagos and end to insurgency and other insecurity challenges in the country. His words: “I wish all Lagosians and Christians across the world Happy Easter, as we celebrate God’s greatest sacrifice to mankind. Events leading to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ were epochal in the annals of Christianity and humanity. They remind us of his virtues of sacrifice, love, harmony and peaceful coexistence. “As Christians, this period offers us an opportunity to rethink our relationships as individuals, as communities and as a nation. The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ typifies love, affection and tolerance. It also marked the end of evil and the beginning of good deeds.” He urged Christians to pray for continuous peace in Lagos and end to banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and other insecurity challenges in the country. In the same vein, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has urged Christians to emulate Jesus Christ by making sacrifices for development. Wike, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, noted that “Easter exemplifies the ultimate sacrifice made by Jesus Christ to save mankind, and as individuals, Christians must take into consideration the welfare of others.” He called on the people of Rivers to re-dedicate selves to the service of the state as they reflect on the ideals of Good Friday and Easter. The governor assured them that he would continue to make sacrifices for the state and Nigeria as a whole, defend her interests and ensure good governance. According to him, Easter is a period of fresh beginning, forgiveness, love and friendship, urging the privileged to reach out to the less privileged, as everyone works to deepen the culture of true Christianity. While wishing them Happy Easter, Wike assured them of security before, during and after the celebration. 