After several weeks of preparation, all is now set for the UEFA Champions League trophy tour of Nigeria sponsored by Heineken. With Dutch football legend, Clarence Seedorf, headlining this year’s trophy tour, the action-packed and fun-filled activities slated for the two cities of Lagos and Abuja were, yesterday, unveiled by Heineken. The prestigious UEFA Champions League trophy, regarded as one of the most coveted sports silverware arrived yesterday in company of iconic football star, Seedorf and his entourage. According to the itinerary, the activities will begin today with Seedorf’s visit, first to the SuperSport studio and then to Nigerian Breweries Plc headquarters. Seedorf, at the Nigeria Breweries headquarters, will meet with some prominent Nigerian football legends billed to confront him and his teammates in the Heineken Face-off football challenge later today. The Nigerian team to face the Seedorf-led five-a-side squad includes former Super Eagles duo of Austin Okocha and Daniel Amokachi, as well as superstar music artistes, Davido and Reekado Banks. After the visit to Nigeria Breweries, the next port of call for Seedorf is the Brewery bar where a press parley will be held and the unveiling of the UEFA Champions League Trophy, the international legend and the home-grown legends will be conducted. According to the organisers, the train will move to Landmark Events Centre for the tasty faceoff challenge between Team Heineken and Team Nigeria. While both sides take some rest after what should be a frenetic exercise, the fans will take the centre stage in the various games lined up for their enjoyment, having only been spectators all day. Activities on the first day of the trophy tour will climax with the match viewing experience as Bayern Munich attempts to cancel the lone goal defeat to Samuel Chukwueze’s Villarreal FC at Allianz Arena, just as Real Madrid hope to end FC Chelsea’s reign of the tournament with an advantage of 3-1 last week and set to complete the job at Santiago Bernabeu tonight. The excitement at the viewing experience will climax with after-party entertainment.