Mr Timothy Owoeye, the Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, has commended the Governor of Osun, Gboyega Oyetola, for upgrading the College of Education in Ilesa to a University. Owoeye stated that Oyetola has carved his name in gold by bringing into fruition the yearning of the people of Ilesa and Ijesa by upgrading the age-long College into a full-fledged University. The speaker, in a statement on Friday, said that the gesture by the governor will go a long way to complement his administration in the educational sector, therefore re-invigorating the successes achieved in the three years of his government. He stressed that with the singular action of upgrading the college, amongst other gestures, the administration is focused on further development of the town. He said citizens and residents of Ijeshaland would definitely reciprocate the kind gesture by ensuring that the governor records resounding success in the fast-approaching governorship election in the state. “Our people appreciate your excellency for hearkening to their life-long wishes of having a full fledged citadel of education like the university.” “With the uprading of the 44-year-old College of Education, Ilesa, to a University, your excellency have honoured our people, and God will continue to honour you. “You have graciously listened to our requests, an attribute of a great leader. “One good turn deserves another is a popular saying that Ijesaland will adhere to by voting enmasse come July 16 this year, to ensure a secured second-term of your administration in Osun.” “Like I have always said, re-electing you as Governor would not be a difficult feat, our people are good, they will always pay good with equal or greater kindness.” Owoeye said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Oyetola, on Thursday, announced the upgrading of the State College of Education to a full-fledged university, while inaugurating a community-funded Geriatric Centre in Ilesa. Oyetola said his administration had also engaged one of the nation’s best corporate consultants, KPMG, to work out the sustainability plan of the upgrade of the college of education. 