Enugu witnesses partial compliance, prayer session records low turnout in Anambra Imo residents, yesterday, sat at home, ignoring the weekend’s reports that an amicable settlement had been struck between South East traditional rulers and the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) to end the sit-at-home order. In Owerri, the Imo State capital, virtually all public places, including banks, schools, markets, shops, private and public offices were shut. Pupils were seen either sitting at home or playing football in the streets. The busy highways like Wethdral, Douglas, Okigwe, Egbu, Mbaise, Onitsha and Port Harcourt roads were deserted, as vehicles were hardly seen. Scores of civil and public servants also ignored the Imo State Government’s order, directing them to be on their duty posts on Mondays and working days or be prepared to face sanctions. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, had issued a statement, warning the workers to comply with the directive. Many residents, who spoke to The Guardian, doubted the assurances to go about their businesses. They said they were unsure of security and safety if they open shops and undertake other economic activities. The Nigerians recalled that they had been regaled with failed guarantees in the past, resulting in unknown hoodlums unleashing mayhem on innocent citizens and properties. An herbal medicine trader, Helen Onyeze, said she took the pledge with a pinch of salt. Her words: “It is difficult to believe that the sit-at-home order has been stopped. We have heard it many times, yet the unknown people continue to kill and burn property,” she submitted. Another resident, Ada Ibe, a hairstylist, said: “I am afraid of coming out despite the fact that we were assured of our safety by the security operatives. We have heard this several times, yet the violent people dealt with some persons.” IN Enugu, the exercise witnessed partial compliance by residents of the metropolis. Markets, parks, malls, petrol stations and restaurants were under lock and key, but major roads and streets saw low vehicular movement, as few commercial buses and tricycle (Keke) operators were seen rendering services. Roadside markets were also open for business activities but could not peak as usual following the development. Speaking with NAN, a trader at the Ogbete Market, Chukwudi Ezeja, said he came out because he was tired of staying at home on Mondays. HOWEVER, the prayer session called to herald the cessation of the sit-at-home, yesterday, witnessed a low turnout. The Anambra State Government had, at the end of a stakeholders’ meeting at the weekend in Awka, demanded supplications against those hiding under the IPOB platform to cause havoc in the state. A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent, who visited some Catholic and Anglican churches in major cities like Onitsha, Nnewi, Nkpor, observed that they were scanty worshippers for the event that officially kicked off at 11 a.m. across the state. Markets, motor parks and business premises remained shut. The roads were also very scanty. No Pentecostal church was seen participating in the exercise. Governor Chukwuma Soludo, clergies and citizens participated in various Mass celebrations to officially mark an end to the exercise that had crippled socio-economic activities in Anambra. He fellowshipped at the St. Joseph Cathedral, Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Council, celebrated by the Catholic Bishop of Ekwulobia Diocese, Most Reverend Peter Okpalaeke at 11:00a.m. Also, the Catholic Bishop of Awka Diocese, Most Reverend (Dr.) Paulinus Ezeokafor led parishioners of St. Patrick’s Catholic Church, Awka to pray for the restoration of peace and security in the state.