When President Muhammadu Buhari signed the newly amended Electoral Act on February 25, 2022, many heaved a sigh of relief because the process had dragged on for too long. Nigerians had become hungry for an effective law that will guide the conduct of the 2023 general elections. The Electoral Act 2022 is Nigeria’s fourth repeal and re-enactment of election legislation, since the return to democratic rule in 1999. The Electoral Act was amended three times (in 2010, 2011, and 2015) before it was repealed. The last amendment process dated back to 2016, shortly after the inauguration of the 8th National Assembly, which was eager to amend the law due to public demand.  The 9th National Assembly reactivated the electoral reform process in 2019. Unlike the previous reform efforts, the 9th Assembly adopted a slightly different approach by consolidating all previous amendments to the 2010 Electoral Act and electoral bills passed in the 8th National Assembly into a single bill.
  
In December 2021, President Buhari declined assent to the bill, due to the restriction on political parties to adopt only direct primaries for nominating candidates. After seven years of intense advocacy, intrigues and intense pressure by civil societies and other stakeholders, the electoral bill was finally signed into law.
   
Previous reports had shown that voter turnout was on a downward trend. Since 2003, voter turnout had declined from 69.1 per cent to 57.5 per cent in 2007, then to 53.7 per cent in 2011 and 43.7 per cent in 2015. The decline continued in 2019 when turnout stood at 34.8 per cent. There has been concern about voter turnout and in general, citizens’ participation in the electoral space.  Sections 47 (2) of the Electoral Act secures the place of the Smart Card Reader or other Technological Device in the Electoral Process while section 50 (2) of the Act gives the Commission the discretion to determine the mode of voting and transmission of results. The Commission had introduced new and creative changes in the enumeration of voters; the party nomination processes and the conduct of elections, while the INEC is currently conducting the CVR both physically and online, using the new INEC Voter Enrolment Device  (IVED).  There were setbacks with the BVAS during the Anambra gubernatorial election and the FCT Area Council Elections but the BVAS performed well during the six by-elections conducted by the Commission in four states in February 26.
  
Okoye acknowledged that the BVAS did not perform optimally and said the commission took all the criticisms on board and has made necessary corrections and adjustments. “This accounts for the optimal performance of the BVAS in the six bye-elections conducted by the Commission in the four States.” He said.  “It is helpful to caution, however, that a new legal regime, fine as it may be, can be subverted by the political class that absent itself from a conversation about wholesome electoral behaviour and integrity and by the security agents also, who engage in professional misconduct, and the judiciary, who abuse its powers of interpretation and supplant the plight of voters through technicalities.”
  
He added that no sympathy should be spared for those who find comfort in the regime of excuses, adding that there is a need to mobilise the people to engage not only in elections but also in governance. “It is a pertinent way to consolidate democracy, which even in its worst form is better than any other,” he adds. Legal Adviser, National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Dr. Shuaibu Danwanka said the Electoral Act 2022 in particular appears desirable with flamboyant provisions that will no doubt strengthen the electoral process to a certain degree of fairness and credibility.
  
He, however, stated that the impact of all the innovations discussed will only be realised if the critical stakeholders, INEC, political parties, judiciary and candidates remain committed and sincere in discharging their obligations or playing their roles with a high sense of justice, fairness and integrity.  “Legal and administrative reforms alone, as previously enunciated, cannot deliver free, fair, credible and inclusive elections. All the aforementioned stakeholders must show commitment and political will to play by the rules. For instance: political parties and contestants must strictly adhere to the rules of the game, as set by the National Assembly and INEC.  “There must be no cutting corners or culture of impunity,” he said. Nigerians had become hungry for an effective law that will guide the conduct of the 2023 general elections. The Electoral Act 2022 is Nigeria’s fourth repeal and re-enactment of election legislation, since the return to democratic rule in 1999. The Electoral Act was amended three times (in 2010, 2011, and 2015) before it was repealed. The last amendment process dated back to 2016, shortly after the inauguration of the 8th National Assembly, which was eager to amend the law due to public demand.  The 9th National Assembly reactivated the electoral reform process in 2019. Unlike the previous reform efforts, the 9th Assembly adopted a slightly different approach by consolidating all previous amendments to the 2010 Electoral Act and electoral bills passed in the 8th National Assembly into a single bill.
  
In December 2021, President Buhari declined assent to the bill, due to the restriction on political parties to adopt only direct primaries for nominating candidates. After seven years of intense advocacy, intrigues and intense pressure by civil societies and other stakeholders, the electoral bill was finally signed into law.  Sections 47 (2) of the Electoral Act secures the place of the Smart Card Reader or other Technological Device in the Electoral Process while section 50 (2) of the Act gives the Commission the discretion to determine the mode of voting and transmission of results. The Commission had introduced new and creative changes in the enumeration of voters; the party nomination processes and the conduct of elections, while the INEC is currently conducting the CVR both physically and online, using the new INEC Voter Enrolment Device  (IVED).
  
The Commission has also introduced an online portal through which international and domestic observers and the media can apply for accreditation. The commission introduced the INEC Result Viewing Portal (iRev) through which polling unit level results are uploaded to a result-viewing portal in real-time. These technological steps and many more will no doubt aid a greater use of technology in the electoral process and it will to a large extent reduce human interference in the voting, counting and collation process.
  
Despite these improvements, participants cautioned that technology does not operate itself and that the human element is ever-present. For instance, speaking at the training, INEC spokesman, Festus Okoye, stated that the commission would not expose its staff to unnecessary danger, even though the commission is determined to register eligible registrants. There were setbacks with the BVAS during the Anambra gubernatorial election and the FCT Area Council Elections but the BVAS performed well during the six by-elections conducted by the Commission in four states in February 26.
  
Okoye acknowledged that the BVAS did not perform optimally and said the commission took all the criticisms on board and has made necessary corrections and adjustments. “This accounts for the optimal performance of the BVAS in the six bye-elections conducted by the Commission in the four States.” He said.
  
He added: “ The Commission will continue to use the BVAS to verify, confirm or authenticate the particulars of an intending voter. The BVAS is the new enemy of those engaged in identity theft and multiple voting, as it verifies either the fingerprint or facial of the intended voter.  He urged the political class to have a change of mindset and attitude and do away with zero-sum politics, allowing the electoral process to be and imbibe the spirit of good sportsmanship.  “It is helpful to caution, however, that a new legal regime, fine as it may be, can be subverted by the political class that absent itself from a conversation about wholesome electoral behaviour and integrity and by the security agents also, who engage in professional misconduct, and the judiciary, who abuse its powers of interpretation and supplant the plight of voters through technicalities.”
  
He added that no sympathy should be spared for those who find comfort in the regime of excuses, adding that there is a need to mobilise the people to engage not only in elections but also in governance. “It is a pertinent way to consolidate democracy, which even in its worst form is better than any other,” he adds. Legal Adviser, National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Dr. Shuaibu Danwanka said the Electoral Act 2022 in particular appears desirable with flamboyant provisions that will no doubt strengthen the electoral process to a certain degree of fairness and credibility.
  
He, however stated that the impact of all the innovations discussed will only be realised if the critical stakeholders, INEC, political parties, judiciary and candidates remain committed and sincere in discharging their obligations or playing their roles with a high sense of justice, fairness and integrity.
  
Executive Director, OJA Development Consult, Jide Ojo stated that INEC and its 36 other counterparts at the State Independent Electoral Commissions cannot single-handedly deliver on free, fair, peaceful, credible and inclusive elections.  “Legal and administrative reforms alone, as previously enunciated, cannot deliver free, fair, credible and inclusive elections. All the aforementioned stakeholders must show commitment and political will to play by the rules. For instance: political parties and contestants must strictly adhere to the rules of the game, as set by the National Assembly and INEC.
  
He admonished observer groups and media to engage in conflict-sensitive reportage and shun fake news, while calling on the judiciary to ensure substantial electoral justice, not judgement, adding that election dispute resolution must be timely. “There must be no cutting corners or culture of impunity,” he said.