•Recover arms, ammunition, as IGP harps on technology-driven policing 
Operatives of the Force Intelligence Bureau’s Intelligence Response Team (FIB-IRT) have in a sting operation, arrested four notorious arm dealers and recovered 57 AK47 rifles and a large catchment of ammunition in Jos, Plateau State and from other locations across the country. The suspects, Hamza Zakari (aka Hamzo)  20; Abubakar Muhammed (aka Fancy), 22; Umar Ibrahim, 25 and Muhammed Abdulkarim (aka Dan-Asabe), 37, all males and residents  at Jos, were arrested following a credible intelligence on their nefarious activities in Jos and its environs. Police’s spokesperson,  Olumuyiwa Adejobi,  said the suspects, who confessed to their involvement in arms dealings and other criminal acts, have been identified as one of the major links for the supply of arms and ammunition to criminal elements terrorising the state and other parts of the country. He stressed that the suspects will be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigations. He said: “The investigation team is on the trail of their accomplices and they are closing in on them. “Similarly, operatives of the FIB-IRT acting on a tip-off have smashed and arrested three suspected gun runners in Ibi LGA of Taraba State. The suspects, Bello Sani, Venab Puncat and Yusuf Nahoda, all of Ibi Local Council, during interrogation, confessed to have purchased one AK47 rifle, and one SMG rifle at the cost of N900,000. “Concerted effort has been activated to arrest their collaborators and recover the exhibits. “IGP Usman Alkali Baba, while commending the successes recorded by the FIB-IRT, reassured members of the public of his administration’s commitment to the fight against common enemies of the nation who are hell-bent on causing pains, tears and agony to Nigerians. “He also called for continuous support for the Police and the security community, as the Nigeria Police Force under his leadership will up its game to ensure public safety, peace and security via intelligence-led, technology–driven and robust community–based partnership for a better security architecture in Nigeria.” 