Residents of Oke Ira Nla, Ira NIa, Alasia, Oke Ira Kekere, Badore, Oke-Egan and Oko Addo towns and its environs in Ajah, Eti-Osa Local Council Development Area have called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to fix the abandoned Salu-Obodo-Alasia Road in their communities. They said the road, which has been abandoned since 2018 is inflicting pains on them, because it has become almost impassable, as it is constantly flooded. The Steering Committee of Salu Obodo-Iranla-Alasia Road Project, at a press briefing, appealed to the Lagos State government to urgently construct the abandoned road, which has brought untold hardship on residents. The Chairman, Steering Committee on Salu Obodo-Iranla-Alasia Road Project, Alhaji Balogun Abdulateef, urged the state government to direct the appropriate government agency to set the necessary machinery in motion for a timely completion of the 6.9 kilometre road. “The completion of the project would reduce traffic gridlock on Badore Ajah Road, travel time, vehicle maintenance and transportation expenses,” he said. He appreciated Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for promising to construct the road as enunciated during his recent visit to the council. He added that the abandoned road is the only available route for over six communities in the locality. The committee’s Public Relation Officer, Mr. Idris Ibrahim, claimed that on a yearly basis, the residents spend an average of N10m to grade the road to make it accessible for commuters. The Chairman, Property Owner and Resident Association (PORA), Alhaji Kazeem Awodun, said the communities have approached the LCDA but nothing came out of the effort, as it claimed it does not have capacity to complete the project. “We want the government to alleviate the suffering of the people residing in the communities.” Mr. Dele Ajeigbe said the abandonment of the road has resulted in many relocating from the communities. “A journey of about 10 to 15 minutes if the road had been completed, but now take about 3 to 4 hours, due to the rickety nature of the road.” A resident, Mrs. Bernadeth Nkiruka Doe, said the deplorable state of the road is worrisome to residents, inflicting pains on motorists and commuters. 