National leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu has since declared his intention to contest the Presidency in the 2023 general elections. But as he aspires to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, he appears in contention with certain critical hurdles.
 
Though a large number of Yoruba stakeholders agree that Tinubu might be the best the zone could put forward as a presidential candidate, the former Lagos State governor’s major hurdle in the race is the opposition from the Southwest zone base and the challenge of convincing the party delegates across the six states on the need to support his bid with their votes when the chips are down. He may also face the hurdle of stiff opposition from the ruling party, where dissenting voices to his aspiration appear apparent.
 
Tinubu’s recent consultations across the nation indicate that he has taken some steps far beyond ordinarily seeking his party’s presidential nomination ticket. As one of his ardent supporters, Bolaji Sanusi puts it, Tinubu’s programme for the 2023 elections is more of a movement and revolution, which may be difficult to stop.
  
The former governor has traversed the Southwest geo-political zone just as he is also galvanising his support base across the north. All these he has been doing while other notable names like Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state and a horde of presidential aspirants from the Southeast are yet to signify their intent or are yet to begin any move suggestive of being serious with their aspiration.  Diverse Politicking Across Southwest States 
Some political observers are of the view that Tinubu needs to play more in party politics as his recent meetings with traditional rulers may be of less significance in getting the party ticket. They expressed the belief that the National Leader ought to align himself with the governors, who may want to identify with whoever Mr. President eventually endorses.
 
Lagos State is expected to yield to the national leader in terms of support for Tinubu’s aspiration, given that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is one of his political proteges. He is also expected to enjoy the support of the organised unions like the NURTW, artisans and others. Recall that Sanwo-Olu recently led the leadership of the party in Lagos to launch ABAT.
 
In a conversation with The Guardian, the spokesman of ABAT, Bolaji Sanusi stressed that the movement will soon spread across the entire geopolitical zones in the country to market Tinubu’s aspiration. According to him, “ABAT is a revolution aimed at transforming Nigeria for the best under the able leadership of the national leader.”  Tinubu will also enjoy support from the pioneer National Chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande, who is also a former governor of Osun. However, the Rauf Aregbesola factor may create a little setback for him in Osun. Some loyalists of the minister, who feel that Oyetola did not treat their leader (Aregbesola) fairly may not tag along with the national leader. THE game may be different in Ondo State. The stance of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is clear as the a strong supporter of Tinubu. In fact, credible sources within APC, confirm that “Akeredolu is for Tinubu any day.”
 
However, it is also believed that Ondo is still very open between Tinubu and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, should the vice president eventually throws his hat into the ring.  The group, during its inauguration in Akure, averred that “there is no better candidate in the southwest to contest the ticket with Tinubu.” Its convener, a former commissioner in the state, Femi Adekanmbi said, “the group is made up of no fewer than 1000 members and delegates in each of the 18 local councils who are ready to give their all for Tinubu’s ambition. Adekanmbi, who noted that most politicians in the southwest and other parts of the country had benefitted immensely from the kind gesture of Tinubu, urged those aspiring to contest the ticket with him to wait for their turn.
  
In Ogun State, Governor Dapo Abiodun is said to be supporting the ambition of the vice president. Osinbajo, a former Commissioner for Justice in the Tinubu administration in Lagos, is from Ogun East, the same senatorial district as Abiodun. It is also reported that the vice president played no small role in his emergence, when the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunke Amosun, desperately frustrated the incumbent in 2019.
 
There are allegations that Abiodun is doing everything possible to frustrate Tinubu’s support groups in the state. It is alleged that the governor has instructed that no serving commissioner should be seen identifying with any of the national leader’s presidential campaign group. 