Former international midfielder, Dahiru Sadi, has urged the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to employ a coach that will develop and build his team around home-based players. The NFF recently sacked the Eagles’ coaching crew, who failed to qualify Nigeria for Qatar 2022 World Cup. The Eagles lost the ticket to Ghana’s Black Stars on the away rule, after the two-leg play off fixtures had ended 1-1. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Sadi said the next task for the new coach would be to rebuild the national team, ensuring that home based players form the bedrock of the team. “My main concern now is not whether we employ a foreign or local coach. What I care about is for us to get a coach who will come and develop our football; beginning from harnessing the talents our domestic league can offer. “The condition of developing the domestic league players for the national team is a good one for the new coach. This time around, I think we need a coach who will be based in the country to watch our league matches,” he said. The former midfielder identified the midfield as the Eagles’ problem area, adding,  “that was my problem with Eguavoen because I had expected him to fix it when it was obvious that the Eagles lacked a midfielder, who could hold the team together. It was the same problem the team faced that led to our ouster at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroun. “I had expected Eguavoen to go round the country in search of a creative midfielder before our World Cup play off against Ghana. Unfortunately, he did not do that, as the problem was evident in the two-leg fixtures we played with the Black Stars.” He canvassed total support for the new coach, whether foreigner or indigenous, saying,  “That was exactly the support Coach Westerhof got in his days as Eagles coach. “Westerhof was able to assemble many home-based players, who later went on to play for the country and clubs in Europe. The fact that we invite players to Eagles, who never played in our local league, to me, is a big minus. In every country, the domestic league is the backbone of the national team.”