Download logo You may not realize it, but numerous products made with vulnerable wild plants are probably scattered around your home.  A wander through the kitchen may reveal Brazil nuts in your cupboard, gum arabic in your soda and liquorice in your herbal tea. Your bathroom may have lotions containing shea butter or skincare products made with baobab or argan oil. Frankincense or jatamansi may be found on the bedroom's table, as an ingredient in your perfume.  A new report published today by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Wild Check: Assessing risks and opportunities of trade in wild plant ingredients, sheds light on twelve flagship species – the so-called “wild dozen” – that are hidden in our everyday products.  Developed in collaboration with TRAFFIC, a non-governmental organisation working globally on trade in wild animals and plants, and the International Union for Conservation of Nature, it aims to raise awareness about the sustainable use of wild-harvested plants.  Launched to coincide with this year's celebration of Earth Day, it comes amid a surge in global demand for wild plant ingredients (an increase of more than 75 percent in value over the past two decades).  Thousands of species are at risk primarily due to habitat loss, as well as other factors such as climate change and over-exploitation. Of the 21 percent of medicinal and aromatic plant species whose vulnerability status has been assessed, nine percent are considered threatened with extinction. About 1 billion of the world's most vulnerable people are thought to depend on them for their livelihoods.  “The sustainable use of wild plants has critical implications for food security and for millions of livelihoods around the world. It is time that wild plants are given serious consideration in our efforts to protect and restore habitats, promote sustainable agrifood systems and build inclusive, resilient and sustainable economies, particularly as countries work on the post-COVID recovery,” said Sven Walter, who heads FAO's Forest Products and Statistics team.  Supply and demand  Plants make up around 80 percent of all biomass on Earth and play a fundamental role in supporting humans and other animals by providing food, medicine, oxygen and shelter. In some parts of the world, wild plants are collected by some of the most vulnerable people, often using traditional methods that date back generations.  Meanwhile, demand for wild plant ingredients keeps growing, especially in wealthier countries. Consumers in the United States alone spent an estimated 11.3 billion dollars on herbal dietary supplements in 2020, while preliminary evidence suggests the COVID-19 pandemic has renewed interest in the use of wild species as ingredients in traditional and modern medicine. Overall, it is estimated that up to 5.8 billion people may be using wild or semi-wild plants globally, according to a study by Rhodes University in South Africa.  Despite their ubiquity, importance, and the threats they face, wild plant ingredients are often obscured from consumers and escape companies’ due diligence due to a lack of awareness and traceability.  The report aims to address these challenges by providing detailed information on a selection of ‘flagship’ wild plant ingredients, dubbed the “Wild Dozen.”  The wild dozen  The 12 wild plants singled out in the report are: The report is available to industry, consumers, practitioners and investors and details why we need to care about these precious – yet often overlooked – ingredients present in our everyday lives. With responsible sourcing, these ingredients can support broader wildlife conservation and improve the livelihoods of some of the world's most marginalized people. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).