 LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – MAY 27: (EDITORIAL USE ONLY) Megan Thee Stallion attends the 2021 iHeartRadio Music Awards at The Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, California, which was broadcast live on FOX on May 27, 2021. (Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for iHeartMedia) Rapper Megan Thee Stallion has opened up on the trauma she faced after being shot in July 2020. The rapper recounted the details of the shooting incident in an interview with Gayle King on CBS Mornings. In the interview preview released on Sunday, the Grammy Award winner shared her account of the night she alleges that Tory Lanez shot her in both feet during a party in the Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles. Music megastar @theestallion sits down exclusively with @GayleKing for her first TV interview addressing the 2020 shooting allegedly involving rapper Tory Lanez, Monday on #CBSMornings. Tory Lanez pleaded not guilty to an assault charge related to the alleged shooting. pic.twitter.com/iYDZdkOAMm — CBS Mornings (@CBSMornings) April 24, 2022 “It was an argument because I was ready to go and everybody else wasn’t ready to go, but that’s like normal friend stuff. We fuss about silly stuff all the time,” the rapper, 27, says. “But … I never put my hands on anybody, I never raised my voice too loud. This was one of the times where it shouldn’t have got this crazy.” Addressing the incident in a tv interview for the first time almost two years later, Megan explains how the shooting had occurred, noting that outside the parked car, Lanez was “standing up over the window, shooting” at her. “So, I get out the car and it’s like, everything happens so fast,” she says. “And all I hear is this man screaming, he said, ‘Dance, b—!’ And he started shooting. I’m just like, ‘Oh my God.’ He shot a couple of times.” In the preview, she also shows emotions, saying, “I didn’t even want to move. I didn’t want to move too quick, ’cause I’m like, ‘Oh my God, if I take the wrong step, I don’t know if he could shoot something that’s super important, I don’t know if he could shoot me and kill me “. “I was really scared ’cause I had never been shot at before.” Megan Thee Stallion had accused Tory Lanez of shooting her in the foot after she wanted to leave a party early in an Instagram Live in August 2020. “You shot me, and you got your publicist and your people going to these blogs lying and s—. Stop lying,” she said accusing Lanez of changing the narrative. The rap star revealed that she had feared the police’s reaction to learning that there was a gun in the car, which is why she had covered up for Lanez. At the time of the incident, Tory Lanez was arrested and charged with carrying a concealed firearm in a vehicle before being released on $35,000 bail later that same day. In October 2020, he was charged with one felony count each of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, personal use of a firearm, and carrying a loaded, unregistered firearm in a vehicle. He, however, pleaded not guilty. A few weeks ago, Lanez was arrested for violating court orders prohibiting him from contacting Megan Thee Stallion or discussing any discovery in the case with outside parties. He was released on a $350,000 bond, and his next court hearing is set for September.