Northern group backs AfDB’s Adesina for presidency
Minister Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has finally declared his intention to contest the Kebbi State governorship position on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). Making the declaration, yesterday, at the Presidential Lodge, Birnin Kebbi, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) said he took the decision after consultation with political stakeholders in the state. He commended the efforts of Kebbi people and APC chieftains for their call on him to contest the state governorship. “You asked me to come and contest, and I have agreed to contest. Today, I have joined the governorship race,” he added. Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi commended the minister for his efforts in bringing unity into Kebbi politics and supporting the youth. Kebbi APC Chairman, Abubakar Kana, assured the minister of the party’s support towards his aspiration. He called on party officials to support Malami in his mission and ensure APC’s victory in the state. ALSO, former member, House of Representatives, Mohammed Shaaban, yesterday, expressed interest in Kaduna State governorship seat. Shaaban, who picked up the All Progressives Congress (APC) Expression of Interest and Nomination forms in Abuja, promised to tackle the security challenge in the state, if elected. Represented by his first daughter, Asmau, the former lawmaker said it was unfortunate that Kaduna found itself at the receiving end of insecurity, despite the developmental strides of Governor Nasir el-Rufai in the last seven years. The Danburam Zaria identified education and job creation as sectors he would be preoccupied with if voted into power. MEANWHILE, the Northern Coalition Progressive (NCP) has endorsed the president of African Development Bank (AFDB) Dr. Akinwumi Adesina,as the only presidential candidate of the North. After a meeting of the 19 northern states’ executives of NCP, the Chairman, Dr. Godwin Yakubu, and Secretary, Abdullahi Shehu, stated that the group had x-rayed all the presidential aspirants in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and APC, but could not find a good candidate that could fix the country’s battered economy. The statement noted that the choice of Adesina was based on his track records, how he reformed the agriculture sector when he was minister and the massive reformations going on at AfDB. It maintained that it would mobilise 30 million votes for Adesina from the North to enable him win. 