PLCU was introduced to the world in December 2021, with a price of $0.10. In less than six months, its price soared to $100,000. (At its peak, it was $116,000.) Now the price of PLCU exceeds bitcoin by more than twice. The PLCU founder, Alex Reinhardt, says the secret of the fast growth is the unique ecosystem around this product that has already attracted over a million users. We looked at what makes PLCU different from other crypto assets. 1. Own technology of minting for the generation of coins
Minting is an alternative, energy-efficient way to mine cryptocurrency. PLC Ultima minting is a one-of-a-kind solution for distributing rewards to users. By purchasing an Ultima Minter digital certificate, users can freeze a certain amount of their existing PLCU coins for a specified period of time, allowing them to obtain new PLCU coins during that period. When all conditions are met, the smart contract signed between PLC Ultima and the user ensures that the coins will be deposited into the user’s wallet. This smart contract is permanently entered into the blockchain and is visible to anyone throughout the network. 2. PLC Debit Card
The PLC Debit Card is a crypto debit card that lets you use crypto to pay for almost anything in the world. It supports seven major cryptocurrencies – Litecoin, Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, USDT, EOS, BAT, as well as PLC Ultima. Account currencies include Euro, Dollar, Pound, Chinese Yuan, and Japanese Yen. With the PLC Debit Card, card holders can pay at any POS-equipped store and withdraw money from regular ATMs. The PLC Debit Card can also be used to make online purchases and transfers among other cardholders. 3. Ultima Wallet and Ultima Farm app
It is with Ultima Wallet and the Ultima Farm smartphone app where the PLCU users can create new coins. Minting them is easy, you only need to have a smartphone. With the Ultima Farm app, PLCUs are automatically minted, without any complicated equipment or huge amounts of energy required. PLCU users essentially have a printing press on their phone, but instead of paper dollars, it prints PLCU digital cryptocurrency and stores it in Ultima Wallet. 4. Platin Pay 
Blockchain-based payment system Platin Pay enables its members to directly pay for a wide range of goods and services locally as well as internationally. Platin Pay is a payment service provider that accepts bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. Merchants can use Platin Pay to accept cryptocurrencies, while customers are able to use crypto assets to pay for goods and services. Platin Pay offers technical solutions for the integration of payment module applications for online stores and other websites. Due to its high speed, Platin Pay users are protected from bitcoin and other cryptocurrency volatility. 5. PLCU Community
More than 1,000,000 people use PLC Ultima products in 120 countries. The company promises to continue to expand its global reach. After experiencing the quality and uniqueness of the PLCU ecosystem, PLCU users often become brand ambassadors and actively promote the brand. In addition to online events, PLC Ultima holds regular offline events for the active members of the community. The next offline events will take place in Berlin and Switzerland in 2022.