Head Coach of Nigeria’s U20 Boys (Flying Eagles), Ladan Bosso, has invited 40 players for next month’s WAFU B U20 Championship holding in Niamey, Niger Republic. The list has four goalkeepers, 12 midfielders, 17 midfielders and seven forwards. According to Team Secretary, Aliyu Lawal Ibrahim, invited players were expected to arrive at the Blue Spring Hotel, opposite Ministry of Justice (Maitama), Abuja, yesterday, with their international passports. Seven–time African champions, the Flying Eagles will play in Group B of the WAFU B Championship alongside Ghana and Burkina Faso, with the tournament scheduled for May 7 to 20 in Niamey.   Hosts Niger Republic, Cote d’Ivoire, Togo and Benin Republic will contend in Group A. Only the two finalists will qualify from the WAFU B zone to participate in the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations. The invited players are goalkeepers Orya Joseph (Lobi Stars), Nathaniel Nwosu (Water FC), Jimoh Saheed (Adoration FC) and Chijioke Anianboso (Giant Brillars). The defenders are Njoke Augustine (Abia Warriors), Gabriel Adewara (Ikorodu United), Babaji Abubakar (Niger Tornadoes), Okoli Augustine (Giant Brillars), Hassan Shuaibu (Smart City), Uzochukwu Ezeobi (Zamfara United), Opeyemi Omoloye (Amure City), Frederick Benjamin (ABS FC), Monsuru Oyinmade (A&A Academy), Adegbite Emmanuel (Enyimba FC), Bolu Shotimade (Akwa United) and Adamu Saidu (Water FC). The midfielders listed for the camping are Anas Hassan (Vandrezzer FC), Okeowo Oluwaseyi (3SC), Shehu Sada (Nasarawa United), Promise Harrison (SuperStars Academy), Lawal Samson (Katsina United), Clinshak Longba (Plateau United), Aminu Muhammad (Gombe United), Abdulmajeed Ibrahim (Global FC), Onuche Ogbelu (FOSLA Academy), Jejeko Ola (Coment FC); Hussaini Garba (Maikunkele FC), Divine Nwachukwu (Adoration FC), Sulaiman Kirki (Kebbi United), Munir Idris (Niger Tornadoes), Aminu Yahaya (Nnewi United), Tolulope Simon Ojo (Remo Stars) and Muhammad Sambo Shehu (Katsina United). In attack are Emmanuel Ogbole (FC Basira), Ifeanyi Ogba (Lobi Stars), Sopurochukwu Kelechi (HP Academy), Henry Ndubuisi (Cydos FC), Ibrahim Yahaya (Gombe United), Aliyu Abdullahi (Nasarawa United) and Ahmed Abdullah (HP Academy).