 Burkina Faso is one of the few countries in Africa endowed with a national Measurement, Reporting and Verification (MRV) digital system. The MRV IT platform is part of this system being built by the Government, with the support of GGGI and Sweden”. The need to establish an IT platform stems from national consultations at the project kick-off in 2020. The MRV IT platform was officially launched on March 29, 2022, by the Minister of Environment, Energy, Water and Sanitation, Mrs. Maminata Traoré/Coulibaly, in the presence of the Director General of GGGI, Dr. Franck Rijsberman and Mrs. Delphine Ouedraogo, Program Officer at the Embassy of Sweden.  What for? The web-based platform is primarily designed for archiving and sharing information on the country GHG emissions trends, mitigation and adaptation actions, and on any kind of technological, financial, and capacity building support. This platform is part of the country transparency system in accordance with Article 13 of Paris agreement on enhanced transparency framework requirement. It also helps track progress against the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). Who is it for? The MRV platform is intended for both the national and the international community on climate change. It builds confidence and facilitates monitoring the country’s efforts in the fight against climate change and global warming. It is also intended for national, public and private institutions, scientific community, and students, for learning and knowledge sharing purposes. Burkina Faso's MRV platform structure The MRV platform is organized in six sections as follows: Lessons learnt and good practices A number of good practices noted throughout the development process of the MRV Platform: Management of the MRV platform The Permanent Secretariat of the National Council for Sustainable Development (SP/CNDD) is the entity within the ministry in charge of environment that has been designated to coordinate the national MRV system. It is also responsible for managing the MRV digital platform through its technical division, the National Observatory on Sustainable Development (ONDD). The success of this platform depends on the commitment of national actors to its use, promotion, and regular updating. The administrators, facilitators and sectoral MRV focal points providing data have been trained on the management of the platform with the support of GGGI and Sweden in March 2022 and they will play a crucial role in maintaining the web site dynamic. Accessibility The Burkina Faso ‘s MRV IT platform is accessible at the following link: https://bit.ly/3JEZ8Le Authors Badou Gilbert Yelemou, Senior project coordinator, MRV at GGGI Isabelle Ky, Communication Associate at GGGI Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GGGI Burkina Faso Country office.