The All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention has come and gone. What remains is the part two, which is President Muhammadu Buhari’s options on his Presidential succession plan.
   
In the build up to the national convention, it became obvious that the President was not leaving anything to chance about his succession plan. A plan that took off very long ago. For instance, contained in President Buhari’s remarks, when he signed into law the Electoral Act amendment bill, were mute pointers to his administration’s succession plan. The President seems to believe in the scriptural saying that, better is the end of a matter than its beginning.
   
After noting the salient provisions of the new Electoral Act, which he expected to revolutionise Nigeria’s democracy, the President noted that “these commendable efforts are in line with our policy to bequeath posterity and landmark legal framework that paves the way for credible and sound electoral process that we would all be proud of.”  Control Of APC Structure
REMINISCENT of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s tangle in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), when Atiku’s control of party and governance structure nearly cost Obasanjo a second term, President Buhari’s handlers must have realised the implication of former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, wielding great influence on APC leadership structure.
   
The wrangling between Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole therefore, provided a perfect setting for the President’s men to strike and demobilise the Oshiomhole-led NWC. Ordinarily, if the sacking of Oshiomhole was intended to right the wrongs in APC, nothing stopped a person from the South, specifically the South/South region from stepping in as chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) that was set up.  Men On Buhari’s Radar
SHORTLY after winning his second term election, President Buhari was said to have began a quiet search for his possible successor, even as he was said to be worried about the infighting within APC over the 2023 politics.
   
That concern, it was learned, informed a short list of possible contenders, which names made the rounds in various political circles at one point or another. First of such consideration was the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama. The Guardian was informed that Onyeama was being pushed forward by the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, who was said to be his old friend and close school mate.
    
It was also gathered that the quiet plot to pair up Kyari and Onyeama on the Presidential ballot informed the plea by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss G. Mustapha, for Igbo of Southeast to vote en masse for President Buhari at the 2019 poll to guarantee a shot at the Presidency in 2023.
 
Minister of Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and his Labour and Employment counterpart, Senator Chris Ngige, as well as former Imo State governor, Anayo Rochas Okorocha, were glossed over due to their failure to strengthen the Southeast structure of the party. 
   
After Kyari’s demise, and impressed with the non-sectional sentiment of Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, including his strides in infrastructure development, the Ebonyi governor was talked into joining APC to brighten his chances in the search for Buhari’s likely successor.  