The duo of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have both emerged the most preferred presidential aspirants in the general elections scheduled for February 2023. The result was drawn from a survey conducted by Nextier, a multi-competency advisory firm, and Data-Tier, a data analytics and digital communications firm, released, yesterday, by Dr. Ndubuisi Nwokolo, Partner and Research Lead, Nextier. The survey aimed to gauge Nigerians’ preferences for a presidential candidate, understand the challenges they would like the next government to address promptly, and decode how ethnic and gender biases would inform the next election.
 
Judged across all 467 responses, the most preferred candidate for president were Peter Obi (46 per cent), Yemi Osinbajo (28 per cent), Bola Tinubu (7.5 per cent) and Atiku Abubakar (3 per cent). The most preferred candidates for the vice presidency were Aminu Tambuwal (28 per cent), Musa Kwankwaso (19 per cent), Peter Obi (16 per cent), Bukola Saraki (6.9 per cent), Nyesom Wike (6.4 per cent) and Yemi Osinbajo (5.8 per cent). Assessing the responses from a geopolitical dimension, the presidential preference for respondents from southern Nigeria were Peter Obi (51.2 per cent) and Yemi Osinbajo (26.6 per cent). For the position of vice president, these same respondents preferred Aminu Tambuwal (30.2 per cent), Peter Obi (16.6 per cent) and Musa Kwankwaso (16.6 per cent). No other candidates polled up to 10 per cent in either of the categories.  The respondents’ preferences for the vice presidency were Musa Kwankwaso (32.9 per cent), Aminu Tambuwal (17.1 per cent) and Peter Obi (14.4 per cent). No other candidates polled up to 10 per cent in either of the categories.
 
The survey asked the respondent to rank the 15 candidates in their Most Preferred and Least Preferred order. Peter Obi and Yemi Osinbajo were the most preferred candidates, while Bola Tinubu and Abubakar Malami were the least preferred.  Nextier and Data-Tier will continue to run these surveys until Nigerians go to the polls to elect their new president and vice president. 