Deputy President of the Senate Obarisi Ovie Omo-Agege, yesterday afte declared to run for the Delta State governorship race under the All Progressives Congress (APC). Before declaring to join the governorship race, Omo-Agege apologized to the over ten thousand supporters who had arrived at the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun, football field as early as 7 am, but the programme started at about 4pm. He said despite coming so early the supporters remained patient which he said was an indication that APC is ready to chase away PDP from the state Omo-Agege said he would transform Delta State in less than four years, saying that even as a Senator he had done lots of projects in his constituency and that if elected governor he would ensure that the three Senatorial districts are developed.
He said all the promises he made while declaring to run for the Senate were fullfiled “I brought a lot of development to Delta central Senatorial district, I also want to replicate them Delta North and South districts. Very soon you’re going to hear that a new federal University of agriculture has taken off in Delta North. Delta North contribute a lot to the state but Okowa has marginalized them. if you go to Delta North there is nothing on ground to show. Okowa rode on these local government councils to become governor but he has marginalized them. There is nothing there to show. “If you go to Burutu, Patani, Bomadi and other places in Delta South there is also nothing there to show in Delta. So, Okowa’s government has underdeveloped the state”, he said.. Omo-Agege said while the health and education sectors in the state had virtually collapsed, Okowa spends spends N2 bullion on monthly on thousands of aides, doing nothing. He said he used his influence as DSP to bring a federal polytechnic, university, gave transformers to needy communities, and connected many communities to electricity, amongst others. He promised to do more when elected governor. He thanked the APC South-South leader, Victor Giadom, the national working committee, and several APC leaders for attending the declaration ceremony. The Chairman of the organizing committee, Dr. Otivie Igbuzor, said the formal declaration is historic because it will mark the end of 24 years of PDP misgovernance in Delta State He observed that the mamoth crowd that attended the declaration is prove that Delta State is not a PDP state as held in some quarters. He urged all Delta people to come together to rescue Delta State from PDP bad governance, saying that since 1999 Delta State has been suffering under PDP, and that APC would fight to rescue Delta State,  with Omo-Agege as a liberator.