Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, has ordered a clean up of the site where more than 100 persons died in an illegal refinery Saturday midnight crude oil explosion in Abaezi community of Ohaji /Egbema Local Government Council of the state. In the clean up, mass burial of the decomposing bodies of the unidentified persons who died in the explosion would be carried out, while fumigation of the area would be done thereafter. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Also, the Igbo National Council (INC), has described the disaster and a “generational loss” of youths who would have contributed meaningfully to the future development of the nation. The body also urged the Imo and Federal Governments to carry out a census of families to ascertain the number of those who perished in the explosion. In a statement on Monday, issued by the President, Chilos Godsent, said: “The Igbo National Council (INC) condemn in it’s totality the ugly incident that occurred at Abaezi in Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area on the night of Friday 22nd April 2022 where over One Hundred (100) Igbo Youths were burnt and roosted like goats in a forest at Abaezi, Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area Imo State at the site of illegal refinery activities. “The INC is very shocked that seventy hours after the ugly incident, the Executive Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma and President Muhammadu Buhari has not physically visited the deadly site to condole with the Abaezi people, Ohaji Egbema People, Imo people, the Igbo Nation and Nigeria for this irreplaceable generational lost.” The statement continued: “Consequent upon the above, the Igbo National Council INC therefore call on the Imo State Governor and President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately visit the site and also declare a State of Emergency on Youth Employment in South East and South South Geopolitical Regions in other to forestall the reoccurrence of this satanic incident. “INC therefore demand the immediate arrest and prosecution of the owners of the site inclusive of all the security agents that were protecting and aiding the operation of such illegal refinery site. “INC therefore request the Executive Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma to immediately visit the site within forty eight (48) hours of this release in other for him to have a first hand on the spot report of the sufferings of the unemployed Igbo Youths.” The group urged the Imo and Federal Government to carry a census of families, stressing: “In addition, INC therefore request the Imo State Government and Federal Government of Nigeria to carry-out census of the families that lost their wards and Children, including those whose farmlands were damaged and pay them adequate compensation with out delay. “Finally, we call on the Youths of Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area to immediately disengage from illegal mining of petroleum Resources in the oil rich Communities as INC cannot afford to see a repeat of this ugly incident in Igbo Nation,” he added. 