Another train attack victim dies of multiple injuries Gunmen have killed two persons and injured, at least, three others at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Rantis, a community in Gashish District I, Barkin Ladi Local Council of Plateau State. About six gunmen, who stormed the camp on three motorcycles, reportedly carried out the attack on Wednesday night. The IDPs were said to have completed work for the day and were about leaving the site when the gunmen struck. Two of the IDPs, Dalyop Boyi and Gyang Jugu, were killed while three others, including Pastor Samson Boyi, Dahwol Jam and Pam Boyi sustained gunshot injuries. The Guardian learnt that the gunmen also burnt a Volkswagon Vento car belonging to Dalyop Boyi. According to records, over 200 persons were killed, over 17,000 displaced and property worth millions of naira destroyed in June 2018 when some communities in Barkin Ladi and Riyom local councils of Plateau were attacked. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had assured the communities that the Federal Government would release N10 billion to the state government to bring relief and succour to the people. Osinbajo had also promised that a permanent Mobile Police Squad would be stationed in Gashish to improve security of the area. Plateau police spokesman, ASP Gabriel Ogaba, confirmed the attack to reporters. He said: “We are aware of the attack at the IDP camp by gunmen. Two people were killed, two injured. Police deployment has been carried out, while investigation is ongoing.” MEANWHILE, one of the victims of the recent train attack in Kaduna State, Sgt. Muhammad Funtua (rtd), has passed on as a result of multiple injuries he sustained during the attack. Funtua, who was shot in the head and chest by the terrorists last week, was among those rescued by security agencies. He died in Funtua, his hometown where he was later conveyed for treatment. One Mallam Idris revealed that the ex-service man died on Tuesday. “He gave a good fight to survive, but he did not make it. We pray Allah will grant his soul Aljannah firdausi,” he said. During last week’s train attack, some of the passengers lost their lives, others sustained injuries, while many are still missing. 