Ikenna Iyiegbu has dismissed the invitation of his younger brother, Obinna Iyiegbu, popularly known as Obi Cubana, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as insignificant to his political aspiration. Ike Cubana, as he is called, is an aspirant for Idemili North and South Federal Constituency of Anambra State on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Speaking when he visited the APGA headquarters in Awka, yesterday, Iyiegbu ,noted that the anti-graft agency did not find any incriminating business transactions against his brother. He disclosed that EFCC simply interrogated his brother on whether his wealth emanated from government contracts and other public businesses. Iyiegbu begged the State Working Committee of the party to grant him the ticket, stressing that based on the wealth and public goodwill of the Iyiegbu family, his aspiration would be to serve and ensure dividends of democracy to his constituents. According to him, Idemili North Local Council has continued to dominate representation in the House of Representatives with nothing to show for it. He urged the party to facilitate his emergence as a candidate with capacity to win election from Idemili South Local Council. MEANWHILE, no fewer than 220 aspirants are currently undergoing Anambra State House of Assembly screening on the platform of APGA, including eight females. Among the females are the former Commissioner for Women Affairs, Ndidi Mezue; an aide to former governor, Dame Chinyere Mbakwe, wife of a former legislator for Onitsha South, Ogonna Aniunoh; a former Chairman of Anambra State Waste Management Agency (ASWAMA), Njideka Oraedum and Nkechi Francisca Nwanne. The screening, which started on Tuesday, has, so far, recorded about 70 aspirants as at press time including the Speaker of the House, Uche Okafor and twelve serving lawmakers, who are seeking return tickets. Addressing newsmen after undergoing screening, an aspirant for Onitsha South Constituency, Mrs Aniunoh, decried the low turn out of women aspirants, a development she described as discouraging. Aniunoh, who said she was motivated by her late husband, Patrick Aniunoh, who died in active service, to always aspire to lead, asserted that the low number of women could be as a result of perception that the game of politics is for men only. She said the emergence of Chukwuma Soludo as the governor of the state has brightened the chances of APGA as the party to beat.
Responding, Mbakwe noted that the low tuen out of women is not a disappointment, expressing the hope that more women would join the race. She observed that, irrespective of number, female legislators have a way of playing a good role to unite the House and create a focus for service delivery to their constituents. She appreciated the party for granting waiver to women aspirants to pay N1m and N250, 000 as expression of interest and nomination fees as against their male counterparts who paid a total of N3m.