• Urges decentralisation of energy generation, distribution
• As army ex-general, act fast to deal with insecurity, Osofisan tells Buhari Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, have urged support for President Muhammadu Buhari as Nigeria battles unending security challenges. He also called for the decentralisation of the generation and distribution of power energy in the country. Fayemi, who spoke yesterday during a visit to Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya in Government House, urged Nigerians to assist the President in understanding the predicaments rocking the country. He said as chairman of the forum, all his counterparts are rallying support for the President to succeed. He said: “President Buhari is trying and we as governors can’t leave him alone to tackle the battle.” Besides, Fayemi urged the inclusion of power in the concurrent list for improved service.
IN another development, a renowned literary icon and social critic, Prof. Femi Osofisan, has implored the President to act fast to deal with insecurity. Osofisan, in an interview with The Guardian, in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital yesterday, said the country was in a war owing to the activities of the bandits. He said those that voted for Buhari in 2015 thought he had the capacity to deal with insecurity as he had done in the past, lamenting that he is amazed that a former army general could not tackle insecurity. “What are his military training for? “I don’t think I really have any advice for the Federal Government. We have all kinds of military people in charge. The President himself is a former military man. I am really amazed that we can’t solve this problem. “Obviously, we are at war with bandits. Bandits seem to be well-organised and well-coordinated. “As some people said, maybe we may need to ask for foreign help, otherwise, we will just be going and going and going. I don’t ordinarily like mercenaries but at least for now, the insecurity is so much that people cannot even travel from one town to another. “This is one of the reasons we voted for him.  He is a military man. He has to deal with insecurity. We need to have something done fast. The President must act fast now,” he said.