Former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, on Tuesday picked the nomination and expression of interest forms of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) for the 2023 presidential election. Kwankwaso, who said he paid N30 million for the forms, called on Nigerians, especially politicians who truly want to change the country for good, to join the NNPP. Speaking at the national headquarters of the NNPP in Abuja, Kwankwaso said his party would take over power in 2023. He urged Nigerians to come together and make sure Nigeria is returned to peace and a modern world economy. “I am happy to say that I have already paid the N30m to the party for the expression of interest and presidential nomination forms,” Kwankwaso said. “Let me call on all Nigerians, especially my brothers and sisters who are in this game of politics to do what I have done, and that is to join NNPP. “From 1998 to 2014, I realised that we were together in the PDP for the purposes that the party was formed that was to get rid of military rule. It was then that I realised there was so many differences the ideology was completely different. It became so difficult for us to work together. “In 2014, I became a senator under the APC and worked for the party, believing that they were real progressives. Unfortunately, we realized that the PDP was even better.” The former governor of Kano said he was “angry with the status quo.” He added: “While we are calling on everyone to join the NNPP, I want to remind Nigerians that this is a progressive party that wants to change the political landscape of the country. “I want to tell them that those who really want to serve this country should join hands with us. “But those who are satisfied with the status quo, ranging from insecurity to the issue of economy that is so much in shamble across this country, it is unfortunate that they will continue to be there. “But for those who believe in the unity of this country, Nigeria is divided like never before, so we are the people who have decided to come together to make sure we have one Nigeria no matter which religion you practice. “We have to come together to fight them and make sure Nigeria is returned to peace and a modern world economy.” 