A new study has revealed that the University of Dundee, Scotland, is the most affordable place for students to live, with average weekly spending at just over £150. Comparing the average price of things like student accommodation, a fast-food meal and a taxi fare, among other things, international education provider Oxford Royale concluded that Dundee was the least expensive city for students to live and study. The University of Dundee is one of the UK’s leading universities, internationally recognised for its expertise across a range of disciplines including science, law and engineering. Oxford Royale analysed the cities that are home to the Complete University Guide’s (CUG) top 40 universities, which include other Scottish universities such as Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow and St Andrews. The data shows that the average weekly spending of a student at the University of Dundee comes to a total of only £157, with Dundee city offering the third-cheapest student accommodation at £106 per week and having the cheapest taxi fare at £10. To compare, the average weekly spending of a student at the University of Glasgow is £193, and £229 at the Universities of Edinburgh and St Andrews. “Being a student is expensive at the best of times but being student at the University of Dundee really is affordable when compared to other cities,” said Ghanaian student Zechariah Laari, who is Vice-President at the Dundee University Students’ Association (DUSA). “I think it’s largely because students have everything they need right here on campus, with everything within easy walking distance – the library, sports centre and swimming pool, a shop, restaurants and bars, a nightclub, and green spaces to relax in when the weather improves. “DUSA and its on-campus shop tailor their offerings specifically for students, always look to keep costs down and are extremely competitive. There’s even a free night bus on campus, taking away the need for expensive taxi trips after a night out or studying late at the library. “It’s such a close-knit community at the University and everyone really does look out for each other. With a recycle hub on campus, we even have a place where departing students can hand in items they think would benefit new arrivals, everything from kitchen utensils to books.’’ Hundreds of students from a range of African countries currently study in what is known as Scotland’s sunniest city. Dundee has become a popular destination for African students, offering high-quality courses relating to the oil and gas sector, as well as business and law. If you would like to make enquiries about studying at the University of Dundee, please visit our website www.dundee.ac.uk or send an email to westafrica@dundee.ac.uk.