Yet-to-be identified gunmen have invaded the home of All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, Prince Tonye Princewill, in Government Reserved Area (GRA) in Port Harcourt City Local Government Area of Rivers State. The attack is coming four days after 10 APC governorship aspirants loyal to the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, signed an agreement to support whoever emerges as the party’s flag bearer in the 2023 general election. The Guardian gathered that the hoodlums in the early hours of Friday broke into the Philanthropist’s home, headed straight to a room suspected to be his and when they failed to see him, they removed his close-circuit Television hard drive, CCTV. Confirming the assassination attempt, Princewill in a statement in Port Harcourt, yesterday, said, “I can confirm that in the early hours of this morning  (Friday) my house was broken into. The target was clearly I, as the intruders headed straight for what they thought was my room, broke in and met my absence. Nothing of value was taken, except the hard drive of the CCTV recorder, which leads me to conclude, they had only one objective. My elimination.” Princewill confirmed that he is well and none of his household was hurt but stated that it was a stark reminder that the 2023 political season has started and that those who cannot win on the field, will seek other ways to attain power. He, however, declared that such system might have worked in the past, but not here and not now. The hopeful aspirant thanked God for his safety, stating that the devil is a liar but God’s children will always be protected. He added: “Let me assure my well wishers and my supporters that this incident has not deterred me, rather it has made me more committed to their cause. A more peaceful Rivers State, where all can sleep with both eyes closed and our youths can engage in meaningful activities that can put food on their family’s tables. Brick house is still our destination.” “We are clearly a threat to someone. That person and their group of persons will soon be exposed. In the meantime, I ask for your prayers and your support and some privacy. “Any additional detail we have will be released to you via the security agencies. Let them do their jobs. Men from the security agencies are currently on the scene and I have every confidence that justice will be done.”