Former Anambra State governor and presidential aspirant in the 2023 polls on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform, Mr. Peter Obi, has attributed Nigeria’s prevailing woes, especially acts of criminality, to the cumulative effect of leadership failure. He predicted that the worse is yet to come unless the needful is done to address the drift, stressing that the country has faced bad governance. Obi spoke, yesterday, in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, while addressing the state’s PDP delegates. The former governor, who said that 98 million Nigerians are living in poverty and not sure of food, added that 35 per cent of the population are unemployed, 15 million children out-of-school, while, as of 2017, the country’s debt profile was about N57 trillion, which may have risen to between N135 and N140 trillion. He lamented that the country’s debts can’t be re-paid because “it was borrowed for consumption and production, adding that over 90 per cent of the revenue was being used to service the debts.” He said, “I know the problems of this country and how to solve them including insecurity.” According to him, “To address insecurity, people must be employed and engaged with something to earn a living. We must move from consumption to production.” Stressing the imperativeness to fix Nigeria or get consumed if we don’t do so, he assured that if elected president of the country, he would, within four years, put Nigeria on the path of progress and, thus, change the trajectory. Earlier, a member of his entourage, Dr. Doyin Okupe, urged Nigerians to elect Obi as president, saying that his antecedents are proof that he was ordained by God to lead Nigeria. Okupe said, “ I withdrew from the race to give Obi the chance. PDP is lucky because it stands the chance to defeat the APC federal government who, he said, has nothing to write home about. Nigeria must elect a person like Obi. He is the champion of all the presidential aspirants having, in addition to other qualifications, acquired knowledge from the four corners of the globe.”