The general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye on Sunday said he is not sure at the moment if there will be an election in Nigeria in 2023. “As we speak, I am not sure yet if there will be an election in Nigeria. I said yet – because the Lord has not told me about it,” Adeboye said at the April thanksgiving service. Pastor Adeboye was reacting to the rising insecurity in Nigeria, referencing the spare of attacks and killings in Kaduna State. “You cannot travel by road, you might be kidnapped and attacked. You cannot travel by train, you can be attacked. No where is safe. “Today, it is Kaduna, who knows where next? “So I laugh when people start talking about 2023 elections because even me I don’t know yet if there’ll be an election. “During the last (2019) election, I knew there will be an election in August (2018) the previous year because he (God) has told me about it. “It is not too late for him (God) to say something (about 2023) but for now, he has not said anything about it.” Pastor Adeboye also disassociated himself from partisan politics and insinuations that the RCCG is supporting a political party. “I have said it before, and I will say it again, I am not and will never be a politician, I am a pastor – that is what God has called me to be,” “Please do not distract me. My assignment is to be a pastor; to pray for you, to pray for nations including Nigeria.” Adeboye’s reaction may not be unconnected to a recent circular by the RCCG for the creation of a Directorate of Politics and Governance in the church. Political analysts suggest that the RCCG might be positioning itself to be politically active in the 2023 general elections in Nigeria. Current vice president Yemi Osinbajo, a pastor in the RCCG, is rumoured to have an ambition to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari with the newly created department to mobilise support for his ambition. Adeboye, who spoke extensively on the current state of Nigeria, said it will be unfair on other members of the RCCG who are members of different political parties for him to be partisan. “In the Redeemed Christian Church of God, every political party is heavily represented; APC, PDP, APGA, Labour and other parties you don’t even know their name,” Adeboye said. “I have never told you which party to vote for whether in secret or in the open. “So it will be unjust to tell you to support one party over another.” 