 Megan The Stallion | Getty Images Megan Thee Stallion brought together thousands of fans to Coachella’s main stage Saturday night, with her first ever appearance at the most anticipated events of the weekend. Gyrating her way through the event she yelled “Coachella. Y’all ready hotties?” she yelled to an outburst of cheers to open her debut performance at one of the world’s most-watched music festivals, stepping out in a futuristic silver thong bodysuit with a moulded corset. The 27-year-old gave took the audience on a ride of her career singing one of her hits like “Big Ole Freak” and “Body”. “I walk and I talk like a pimp ‘cuz I am,” the Grammy-winning rapper born Megan Pete in Houston spit out as she strutted across the stage. “Where my hot girls at!” she shouted to the crowd, using the nickname she flirtatiously bestowed upon her devoted fans after crowning 2019 “hot girl summer” and exploding to fame. Hair flowing and twerks popping even harder than her bars, Megan made good on her queen of hotties crown, getting suggestive with the mic and drawing screams with her dance moves. “Ladies if you love your body make some… noise,” she shouted in one of her many expletive-laden proclamations of the night. During her performance, she had the fans confused midway through by disappearing for five minutes, later returning in another outfit, a thong bodysuit, paired with disco-style knee-high turquoise boots. “This my first time at Coachella, and I’m ready to turn… up with y’all!” she exclaimed. “We gonna turn this… up like it’s 2019 real quick.” Megan asked her fans to hold up their cell phone lights, before launching into her latest collaboration with Dua Lipa, “Sweetest Pie.” As she promised earlier this month, the rapper dropped a new track that’s as of now without an official name. However the lyrics, and the dance moves, imply an empowerment anthem criticizing ex-lovers. “Thank you to the… hotties, because without the… hotties, there would be no… hot girl culture,” Meg yelled. Among her closers was “Savage,” her single off the nine-song EP “Suga” that caught fire on TikTok before she did a remix with Beyonce that was among 2020’s smash hits despite its release during the brutal first US wave of the pandemic. Megan Thee Stallion was the final act before headliner Billie Eilish, left the stage as her set threw up fire imagery behind her. Declaring herself forever “hot girl coach,” she had a few final words for the haters.
“If you ain’t know about me, ask your boo about me,” said Meg.