How S’East govs can checkmate insecurity, by HURIWA Governor Chukwuma Soludo, yesterday, announced an amnesty for Biafran militants in Anambra State. He made this known in a statement issued, shortly after a prayer session to end the controversial sit-at-home order imposed by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). He said: “I have also offered amnesty to all our brothers in the various forests around us. Give us your guns and trust us to help you forge a meaningful living.” The statement reads: ‘Following the unanimous agreement of our leaders across the board, and the endorsement of the entire body of Christ, I am pleased to inform our people that, today, Monday, April 4, 2022, marks the official end to the ‘Monday sit-at-home in Anambra State. “Shortly, I will be announcing the membership of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee that will look into addressing all areas of sincere challenge, including interfacing with the Federal Government on behalf of all prisoners of conscience. “I have also offered amnesty to all our brothers in the various forests around us. Give us your guns and trust us to help you forge a meaningful living. “The task of taking back our dear state and reclaiming the dignity of our collective existence is at the heart of our drive towards a liveable and prosperous homeland. This task is a must. “I call for your support and prayers, as we have resolved to fiercely go after criminal elements who are out to threaten our peace and distort our development. “Anambra is the Light of the Nation. We must keep it so.” Soludo’s declaration came as hoodlums attacked Amichi Divisional Police Headquarters in Nnewi South Local Council and others. The incident occurred barely 24 hours after the administrative headquarters of the council was attacked, leaving two people dead. Amichi and the other stations were still undergoing reconstruction, having been among the police posts attacked during the 2020 #EndSARS protest. The spokesman, Anambra State Police Command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident. He said there was no casualty, adding that a team of police personnel had been drafted to the area to ensure calm. He said the hoodlums also attacked Osumoghu and Ezenifite police stations. He said: “After the #EndSARS incident, the communities started reconstruction of those stations and they have not finished them. At the time of the attack, there were no policemen there. I wonder why somebody would attack them.” He added that normalcy had been restored and urged residents with useful information to make them available to the police to enable the command to deal with the culprits. MEANWHILE, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), yesterday, urged the five governors in the South East to explore dialogue and consultations in finding lasting peace and security in the region. HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, said constant military deployments in the zone, over the years, have failed to achieve results, hence the need for dialogue with aggrieved parties. The group disclosed this, following a series of attacks, last weekend, including the setting ablaze of the secretariat of Orsu Local Council in Imo State and the killing of officers of the Federal Road Safety Corps by gunmen along the Igbo-Uku-Uga Road in Anambra State. HURIWA also urged Soludo, to champion the campaign for the release of all Igbo sons and daughters detained illegally, including the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu. The group urged Soludo to implement the “action plan” on insecurity in the zone, according to his inauguration speech, last month, when he said: “Criminality cannot be sugarcoated. This must stop. All stakeholders must now review both the narrative and the action plan.” It said: “The insecurity in the South East has become a serious debacle and governors in the zone must strengthen consultations and dialogue with representatives of all shades of opinion, with a view to ascertaining the identity of the sponsors of violence and reach a truce. “Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, who is the closest to President Muhammadu Buhari, must take a passionate interest in jointly taking steps with other governors to realise the objective of securing freedom for Kanu and cessation of all violence. He should join forces with his brother governors to stamp out criminality and stop sounding false alarms, blaming opposition politicians.” HURIWA said it was wrong for the military to have clamped down violently on the Eastern Security Network (ESN) for procuring arms to protect farmlands from invasion by armed Fulani terrorists, who have killed hundreds of farmers and raped many women, even while none of the killers has ever been arrested or punished. The group said: “It is unjust to isolate ESN for decimation, while the Civilian Joint Task Force, in many northern states, operate side by side with the military to rid the territory of terrorists.”