Contrary to public perception, it is not only on the score of zoning that leaders of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are divided. Underlying the stringent arguments for and against zoning the party’s Presidential ticket is also the quiet censure against former party stalwarts that travelled to the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) as political mercenaries and helped PDP suffer defeat in 2015.
  
Also, there is the perception that these returnee politicians may have had their chance and exhausted their political goodwill during their participation in the 2019 Presidential contest.
  
On both sides of the aisle are staunch political players for and against zoning. Prominent among those supporting the proposition for PDP to maintain its zoning principle are Governor Nyesom Wike, whose Presidential ambition is being supported by his counterparts from Abia and Enugu States, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.  “I stood for this party. I have worked for this party since 1998. I have nowhere to run to and that is why anything that happens to this party, I take it personally. I have never relented.”
  
Frustrated by the insistence of the troika of Tambuwal, Atiku and Saraki to contest the Presidential primary, Wike has given the impression that the only way peace could return to PDP was for the party to take a definite position on zoning.
  
A parallel line has been drawn within the party as each camp has started drawing supporters to its side. For instance, after his sudden declaration of intention to contest the Presidential poll, former Ekiti State governor, Ayo Fayose, sided with his ally, Wike, by taunting Atiku and Saraki.  BACK in 1998, when second Republic Vice President Alex Ekwueme and the group of eight patriots (later known as the G34) formed what later became the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), their stated intention was to build a national political movement guided by equity and justice.
   
It was therefore the group’s patriotic intents to rotate the presidential and other prominent political position between the north and South.
    
By 1998, the G34 noted that ever since Nigeria adopted the Presidential system of democracy virtually all the leaders of the country from President Shehu Shagari through Generals Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Babangida, Sani Abacha and Abdulsalami Abubakar, were from the north. That fact informed the Provisional Military Council under General Abubakar, who was overseeing the final implementation of the transition from military rule to civilian governance to insist that the next national leader should come from the South.
    
It was also gathered that that resolution was also taken in part, due to the need to assuage the feelings of alienation against the Yoruba of Southwest owing to the annulment of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election believed to be won by Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola.
 
As the G34 aligned PDP with the idea of power rotation as a necessary basis of strengthening national unity, the departing military authorities tended to side with the party instead of the progressive elements, whose ideas were seen to be too radical for the post-military era.     
  
In line with its power sharing arrangement, Dr. Ekwueme relinquished the office of national chairman to Chief Solomon Lar immediately it became obvious that the Presidential standard bearer of the party would emerge from Southern Nigeria.
     
As was expected, a new entrant to the party, General Olusegun Obasanjo, a former military head of state, who was favoured by the military slugged it out with the G34 leader and former second republic Vice President, Ekwueme at the PDP national convention and Presidential primary election in Jos, capital of Plateau State for the party’s ticket.
    
Obasanjo, who captured the PDP Presidential ticket, went on to win the main election by defeating his kinsman, and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Olu Falae of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and All Peoples Party (APP) alliance. Enforcing zoning principle
IN 2003, four years after Obasanjo mounted the saddle, an attempt by some PDP state governors to spread the maximum of eight years available to the President between Southwest and Southeast hit the brick walls.
  
That idea of a single term of four years to make way for Dr. Ekwueme of Southeast, as reportedly proposed by the PDP governors led by Delta and Bayelsa States governors, James Ibori and Diepreye Solomon Peters Alamieseigha, did not work because Obasanjo was constitutionally entitled to a second term in office.
  
However, a spectacular feature of the 2003 general election was that an attempt by some northern Presidential aspirants, particularly former second Republic governor of Kano State, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi, to participate in the election was resisted by the PDP leadership.
   
Citing the need to stick to the zoning principle, the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) was said to have returned Rimi’s N10million in certified bank draft representing the cost of the Presidential nomination form he sought to purchase.
   
However, unlike what obtained nearly 20 years ago when some were prevailed upon not to contest the Presidency on PDP’s platform, some extraneous considerations have been injected, including ability to win the main election and capacity to fund the election campaigns. 