 keep wigs in your closet We all love a good wig moment, but the real question is, what do you do with those wigs once you’re done with them?   If your answer is to toss them in a bag, we have some news for you. How you store your wigs determines the longevity of those wigs, and if you have to send them out to get laundered every time, you need to wear them. With great storage, your hair lasts longer, is tangle-free and retains its shine because it doesn’t get dirty. These are some of our favourite tricks and tips to store your wigs correctly, ensuring your inches stay longer and your bobs keep bobbing. Prepping Your Wigs For Storage Before storing your wigs, you need to prep them for storage. Before storing your wig, opt to use a clarifying shampoo (for human hair wigs) or a wig safe shampoo (fir synthetic hair) to clean your hair, removing any buildup of dirt or oil. You should also condition and gently detangle your wigs, especially curly human hair units and leave them to air dry for some time before packing. Consider using a quick spritz of a wig-friendly leave-in conditioner for synthetic hair units. Imagine the smell of wet clothes? That’s exactly what you get when you store your wigs wet. Your wigs need to be completely 100% airdried before they can be stored. Slight moisture could allow mould and mildew to grow on your wig. While using a hairdryer might speed up the process, it’s much more recommended that they airdry. Storing Your Wig Now that your hair’s well dried, it’s time to store it. The only rule to storing your rigs is to keep them in a cool, dry spot away from direct sunlight. These are some great ways to store your wigs: A personal favourite, storing your wigs on a mannequin is a great storage option, especially for straight or wavy wigs. This method of storage keeps your hair in style and maintains its shape. You could opt for a styrofoam mattress, canvas heads, or a foldable wig stand as long as it’s in a cool, dry place. Another great storage idea is to store your wigs in a silk or satin wig bag. This not only keeps it soft but it also prevents tangles. You can easily find silk or satin wig bags in a quick Google search, and even better, they take up almost no space. You can always lay your wigs in a shoebox for easy storage, especially if you have to travel or carry your wig along. But make sure your wigs are not clustered together, one for each wig and make sure the box is completely dry. Our Decision? You should enjoy all of the money you spent on your wig, and the only way to do that is to store them properly to make them worthwhile. This extra bit of attention goes a long way, trust us!  