Efforts by the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to exorcise the ghost of zoning, which the party’s constitution invoked, have given rise to new categorisations: consensus, fairness/equity and Right of the first refusal.
 
One man who foresaw that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would engage in verbal gymnastics was former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. To ensure that he would not be forced by circumstances to speak in tongues, Kwankwaso continued the political voyage he joined others to embark on in 2014.  Bala Mohammed has been announcing the fact that Atiku deserves a break from the Presidential contest on the basis of his age. PDP chieftains say the fact that Saraki is serious about pairing up with the Bauchi State chief executive as alternate consensus choices shows his endorsement of the governor’s sentimental observations about Atiku.  
   
However, unknown to Saraki and Bala, the report of the Ango Abdullahi’s committee that selected them unwittingly perforated their argument, especially by sidelining Governor Tambuwal.
   
Prof. Ango Abdullahi had, in the report, he sent to former military President Ibrahim Babangida, explained, “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North Central and one from the Northeast are to be presented as northern Presidential candidates. The two would in turn be required to make further concessions so that, in the end, one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North.”  How far does Ayu’s position as national chairman impact the undulating arguments around zoning, particularly the moral halo of the doctrine of equity on which the party could have redeemed itself? In the event that PDP delegates look beyond naira and dollar to feed Wike, Atiku and Tambuwal the humble pie, how far could PDP go in its search to reclaim the Presidency after losing it to APC in 2019 through a mixture of blackmail, duplicity and chicanery?
  
However, Ayu has assured Nigerians that the party has its own internal mechanisms for selecting a candidate whether by consensus or by-election, stressing, “We do it transparently.
   
“Our internal processes will go ahead and we are going ahead with it. At the end of the day, we’ll come up with a candidate chosen by PDP members themselves. It is that candidate that we will present to the rest of Nigeria for the forthcoming elections.”
    
No matter how PDP tries to dribble itself, Nigerians are watching to see how far they can go to purge themselves of impunity and political corruption, which consists in doing the right things.