The Federal Government has charged cooks under its National Home-Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP) in Jigawa to ensure they prepared quality and hygienic meals for pupils in the state. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar-Farouk, gave the charge during the training of 54 cooks in Dutse on Wednesday. Umar-Farouk, represented by Mr Badayi Mukhtar, the Assistant Director of Finance in the ministry, said that the training was to ensure that the cooks prepared their meals under the most hygienic conditions with nutritional value. “This training is to ensure that the cooks prepare their food under the most hygienic form and also ensure that they include the nutritional value to it. “We understand that in the past, the cooks usually prepared the meals without any standard guidelines. “That is why the ministry brought in consultants to teach them on the need to include nutritional value to their meals, as well as cook them under the most hygienic process,” Umar-Farouk said. She assured them that the ministry would not compromise on the quality and quantity of meals served to pupils in the country. Also speaking, the Focal Person on Social Investment Programme in the state, Alhaji Mustapha Umar, said that the training was imperative as the Federal Government was trying to make the programme sustainable. Umar said that the gesture would go a long way to check malnutrition among pupils in the state. “This training is necessary at this particular time for its sustainability. “This is because there will be a change of government after the 2023 elections. “Therefore, we want a situation whereby the incoming administration will adopt and continue the feeding programme. “That’s why the training focused on hygienic and nutritional element of the meal in its entire preparation,” Umar said. He said that the gesture would also ensure the consumption of healthy foods by the pupils, thereby checking malnutrition among children across the state. He, therefore, enjoined the cooks to be mindful of the hygienic nature of the meal and water served to the pupils. The focal person said that 54 cooks selected from each of the 27 local government areas of the state, participated in the training. According to Umar, the participants are expected to step down the training to other cooks in their respective areas. Some of the trainees, Rabia Sa’idu and Na’ima Usman, lauded the ministry and the state office for the training. They promised to enhance their operations through the knowledge acquired. Usman urged the government and other stakeholders to ensure the reduction in prices of food items and other commodities needed to prepare the meals. “We don’t have any challenge with regards to our payment or any other aspect of our operation. “The major problem is the skyrocketing prices of food items. “So, we want the government to ensure that the prices of food items are stable and affordable,” Usman said.