Napoli ponder £100m price tag on Nigerian Arsenal have reportedly initiated contact with Victor Osimhen, but remain far from convincing the Nigerian striker to join the club, reports thehardtackle.com. According to Italian sports journalist, Emanuele Cammaroto, via Sport Witness, Arsenal have taken a step forward in their pursuit of Osimhen and have initiated contact with the striker’s camp. The report insists the Gunners are not close to convincing the Nigerian striker over a switch, although the talks may be ongoing. Osimhen’s name has been ringing a lot in the last few weeks as the striker remains linked with a move to the Premier League. There are at least three teams in the country, who are vying for his signature, but it would be a huge task to lure him away from Napoli in the summer. Napoli are prepared to make it hard for suitors to follow through on their initial interest. The Serie A giants are set to place a price tag of over £100 million on the Nigerian, designed to keep some top clubs away. However, the Premier League clubs are willing to find a way through and keep trying. Arsenal and Manchester United are some of the sides keen on the striker. The Red Devils see Osimhen as a possible replacement for Cristiano Rolando in the summer and could be willing to approach when the window opens. However, a move could be subject to their new manager’s choice too. Arsenal, meanwhile, are ready to step up their pursuit of the Nigerian striker, after initiating talks with the forward. The report insists that Osimhen is flattered by their advances, although remains far from convinced whether the Emirates is the right move for him at this stage in his career. Nevertheless, the Gunners are expected to follow through on their initial talks and look to understand what it may take to sign the Nigerian striker. Napoli are expected to demand close to £100 million for the striker, although Arsenal are keen to negotiate and lower the asking price. The main element of this transfer would be to convince Osimhen that a move to play under Mikel Arteta could be right for his career ambitions. There could be other clubs possibly looking at him in the summer, and the striker may be waiting on other proposals to come forward before deciding on his next move. Osimhen may also look to stay put and spend the next season playing in the Champions League with Napoli. At 23, he has a long career ahead of him and remains in no rush to make a decision. Arsenal, on the other hand, are desperate to sign a big name forward or two in the summer window as they have a huge gap to fill in the position. 