A Non-governmental Organisation, TalkLove Africa Foundation, TAF, in partnership with the European Union, EU-ACT, and the British Council, has engaged some relevant stakeholders in Rivers State on the kick-off of its digital literacy programme for targeted women and girls in the state. The six months digital skills training, scheduled to take off towards the end of this month would strengthen the digital capacity of women and girls to enable them to launch their businesses online and enhance their leadership skills, giving them a competitive edge on the internet and post COVID-19 eras. According to the Executive Director of TalkLove Africa Foundation, Amb. Cynthia Obinwanne, who revealed these during a visit to the Ministry of Women Affairs, in Port Harcourt, the project would train 30 women and girls, including those living with disability, for six months. The Director said that the aim of the visit to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Women Affairs was to engage the Ministry ahead of the kick-off of the Foundation’s digital literacy program in the Rumunduru community, in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area, for a start. Speaking during the visit, Amb. Obinwanne said TalkLove Africa Foundation’s visit to the Ministry of Women Affairs Permanent Secretary at her office was to intimate the Ministry on the kick-off of its project on “the promotion of the adoption of digital skills among 30 women and girls in Rumunduru community in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area in partnership with the European Union, agents for citizen-driven transformation and the British Council.” She then solicited the cooperation of the Ministry to ensure the successful implementation of the programme which she said would be ongoing and which would help to lift women and girls out of poverty. Speaking during the visit, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Uchechukwu N. Uriri, who warmly received the team, thanked them for the programme which she described as a great feat, highlighting the need for the Project at a time when the world has gone digital. Uriri, a legal practitioner, also expressed her gratitude for the project and then pleaded with the Foundation to go round to other communities in the state. She reiterated the need for more women to benefit from the project, pointing out that the digital divide between men and women had become very wide and needed to be addressed immediately. Uriri further pledged the support of the Ministry for the project, adding that the relationship between TAF and the Ministry had only just begun as more impactful projects would be organized by both bodies. TalkLove Africa Foundation had earlier paid a stakeholders engagement visit to His Royal Highness, Eze Chris A. Tata of Elioroigwe-Eburu Eno, to discuss the implementation of the forthcoming digital literacy training for women and girls in the Rumunduru community. Amb. Obinwanne said at Rumunduru “that the digital literacy programme was targeted at women and girls living in the community between the ages of 18 and 40 who currently ran businesses. “This training will allocate slots for at least 10 per cent of persons living with disability to ensure that they are adequately equipped with the digital awareness needed to grow their businesses.” Amb. Obinwanne buttressed the main purpose of the training saying, “the training will strengthen the digital capacity of women and girls, enable them to launch their businesses online, and enhance their leadership skills giving them a competitive edge in the internet era.” The community, represented by the Eze and the chiefs, showed appreciation through the Eze towards the efforts of the organization and pledged to support TalkLove Africa Foundation where necessary to ensure the success of the initiative. TalkLove Africa Foundation is a non-governmental organization in the category of special consultative status with the UN Economic and Social Council with the mission to empower and meet the needs of the less privileged children, vulnerable women, and the disadvantaged in society.