Okeke Chibuikem Sinclair is the Chief Executive Officer of Clairhub. As technology continues to dictate and advance the way we live our lives, so also are those taking advantage of the existing loopholes and gaps. Cryptocurrency is the biggest thing right now in the financial technology sector. As digital means of monetary exchange gets busier, there are individuals doing it real dirty. Several platforms have been initiated to help traders send money and buy cryptocurrency to facilitate money transfers around the globe.  However, there have been monumental hacks and scams perpetrated in the crypto world, with the biggest being the $614million-value of token assets stolen on Ronin Network in March 2021. As there are scammers in the banking sector stealing billions from customers’ accounts worldwide, so are fraudsters prying on vulnerable cryptocurrency platforms. The heart-wrenching encounters of many investors motivated Okeke Chibuikem Sinclair, Chief Executive Officer of Clairhub, to establish the company with one goal in mind: fight scammers and give customers unforgettable experiences. Clairhub has been able to establish itself as one of the most credible and trusted cryptocurrency companies in Nigeria. The digital company was established with clear goals and objectives, part of which is to build the confidence of people in blockchain. “I started this business because of the high rate of scammers and business with unfavourable rates and customer service. Risks might include new government rules, volatile rates, hacks etc”, Sinclair declared. Speaking on the doubts surrounding credibility in crypto trading, the Clairhub boss averred that those who invested early in the business are cashing in on a huge level. He, however, advised people to trade on reliable cryptocurrency platforms like Clairhub. “Clairhub is an enterprise aimed at bringing ease and transparency to people looking to exchange their cryptocurrency for cash as well as reliable social media services,” he affirmed. “However, an astute investor needs a trusted crypto trader to avoid being duped by internet fraudsters and crypto thieves who are out there in their numbers. “At Clairhub, we have established our name as a trusted and reliable crypto trader, that is why our customer base is growing by the day,” said the CEO of Clairhub. 