Uzodimma plans to flag off construction of Owerri-Mbaise-Umuahia Road
President Muhammadu Buhari would, next month, visit Imo State to inaugurate some signature road projects in the state. The ambitious legacy roads are Owerri-Orlu and Owerri-Okigwe roads. The two roads contracted to Craneburg Construction Company, had been in terrible condition before Hope Uzodimma became governor of the state in January 14, 2020. Uzodimma disclosed this on Tuesday, after he got the president’s approval. Buhari had visited the state some months ago to commission some projects in the state including Baloon Technology large drainage, checking concentrated floods from one part of the Owerri capital city to other point points in the outskirts. Uzodimma said: “It is, therefore, worthy of note that the roads which are federal roads are currently being reconstructed by Imo State government with dual carriage for the Owerri-Orlu road and expanded width for the Owerri-Okigwe road, as approved by Mr. President.” “Mr. President has graciously approved our request to commission the roads by next month as the contractors, Craneburg, a world class construction company handling the projects, has assured that they would be ready by next month, having achieved 90 percent construction already.” On the fact that the roads are federal roads, requiring reimbursement, Uzodimma said they were undertaken in order to “alleviate the suffering of the people and enable farmers evacuate their produce with ease.” He was hopeful of the reimbursements of the funds expended on them by the state government. The Imo State governor disclosed that the construction of the ever busy and important roads, which are legacy road traversing the capital city through Owerri-Egbu, Mbaise- Umuahia to Abia State, would take off soon, stressing that he would be at the Aso Rock Villa next week to inform the President when it would be flagged off. Mbaise part of the road is the home area of the immediate past governor, Emeka Ihedioha. The Guardian learnt the happy expressions by Imo indigenes, residents, visitors and road users concerning the quality of roads infrastructure, including the urban renewal programme, handled by the administration so far in the capital city.