Christian Pulisic was the late hero for Chelsea as he scored a stoppage-time winner in a 1-0 triumph over West Ham, reports talksport.com. The American converted from close range, and gave the Blues their first win at Stamford Bridge in four games as he also bailed out Jorginho, who moments earlier has his ‘stupid, stupid penalty’ saved. In a closely fought contest at Stamford Bridge, West Ham thought they came away with a point, but switched off at the final exchanges. They were resolute throughout, with Craig Dawson putting in an inspired performance at the back to keep the Blues out. But he, and the Hammers ran out of steam right at the end of the contest. The 31-year-old was sent-off for bringing down Romelu Lukaku in the penalty area with the Belgian through on goal.
However, his miss would not be costly. Minutes later, Pulisic, making his way into the box, converted Marcos Alonso’s cutback and sent the home crowd into ecstasy. Elsewhere, Matej Vydra’s strike took battling Burnley out of the Premier League relegation zone as caretaker boss, Mike Jackson, celebrated a crucial victory against European hopefuls, Wolves. Having drawn at West Ham and then beaten Southampton on Thursday, Sean Dyche’s temporary successor oversaw another huge result in the Clarets’ bid to beat the drop. Burnley may not have been at their best for chunks of yesterday’s encounter but Vydra’s second-half strike proved enough to secure a key 1-0 win against Wolves at a rocking Turf Moor. The victory takes the Lancashire outfit out of the bottom three, albeit potentially only for a few hours should Everton secure a shock win at title-chasing rivals Liverpool. In East London, James Ward-Prowse produced a pair of stunning strikes, as Southampton battled back from two goals down to claim a thrilling 2-2 Premier League draw at mid-table rivals Brighton, reports the42.ie. Saints skipper Ward-Prowse expertly curled home the 14th top-flight free-kick goal of his career just before the break before lashing his team level early in the second period. Danny Welbeck’s early close-range finish and an own goal from Mohammed Salisu looked to have set Albion on course for an overdue first home win since Boxing Day – but they could not hold on. Substitute Pascal Gross thought he had restored the Seagulls’ lead late on before his low strike from range was disallowed for him being marginally offside in the build up. A memorable comeback for Ralph Hasenhuttl’s visitors was slightly overshadowed by Tino Livramento, who hit the woodwork at 1-0 – being carried off on a stretcher in the 37th minute after twisting awkwardly.