Lauds Makinde on infrastructural revolution in Oyo Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Tuesday, joined his Oyo State counter pact, ‘Seyi Makinde, to commission a 50,000 passenger-capacity Ojoo and Challenge bus terminals in Ibadan, the state capital.
   
Obaseki, who was the special guest of honour at the event, commended Makinde for delivering the two massive bus terminals among many others, despite economic challenges in the country.
    
He congratulated Makinde for standing firm by his people, saying that the people of the state will appreciate the governor when it is time.
   
Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, in a statement, said Mr. Obaseki also lauded the people of the state for supporting Makinde, noting that the governor is very passionate about development of Oyo State.  “Listening to you speak a few minutes ago, I said to myself that, indeed, Nigeria still has hope. When we have people like you in government – people who make decisions not on emotions but on data and facts, people who make decisions that affect the majority of the people, we have hope.”
   
He said the project is pro-people, adding that available statistics show that the total capacity of all airports in Nigeria is less than 41,000 passengers in a day. But that the bus terminals built by Makinde in Ibadan alone will take more than 50,000 people.
    
Speaking, at the official commissioning ceremonies held at Ojoo and Challenge, Ibadan, respectively, Governor Makinde, maintained that the projects mark a new dawn in the transport system of Oyo State. He explained that the terminals will promote tourism and enhance the socio-economic development of the state.
  
He said that in his quest to engineer a modern Oyo State, his government had always relied on data, science and logic, saying that data showed that it was time to build a modern alternative to the existing transport system in Oyo State.
   
The governor added that his administration is committed to redefining good governance in the state with each project being commissioned, reiterating that his government will always ensure that the state gets value for its money.
   
According to him, the terminals will be managed through the public-private- partnership system and in a sustainable manner.
  
Makinde, who restated his administration’s commitment to redefining good governance in the state, maintained that each project commissioned by his government has successfully raised the bar of governance.
 
He said:  “Today is an exciting day, and I am delighted to be here, joined by my brother, His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki. I want to especially thank him for journeying down from Edo State to be with us on this day as we commissioned two of the four bus terminals that we embarked on building about two years ago. 