Telecommunications company MTN Nigeria has opened applications for its maiden Media Innovation Programme for journalists and publishers. The MTN Media Innovation Programme is in partnership with the School of Media and Communication (SMC), Pan-Atlantic University in Lagos State. The six-month, fully funded fellowship for Nigerian media practitioners, is designed to support the sustainable development of the nation’s changing media scene. It is open to media practitioners across the spectrum, including print, electronic, online platforms and social media content creators. Applications for the programme opened on Wednesday, April 27 2022 till Thursday, May 5. The course, fully sponsored by MTN Nigeria, will be available to twenty (20) successful applicants. Speaking at launch, MTN Nigeria CEO, Karl Toriola, said the Media Innovation Programme will serve as the telecommunications company’s contribution to growth of media business and development of the professionals. “Journalism like other sectors, including government, the media always seeks to create value,” Toriola said. “We recognise the value media professionals offer the society and we want to play an active part in that.” Toriola noted that all aspects of the media profession has evolved from what it used to be, thus, professional journalists and bloggers must be brought up to speed to the present day reality and catch a glimpse of what the future holds through the help of technology. “The people that will take advantage of technological changes are those that will position themselves to provide value to the society now and the future,” Toriola said. The MTN CEO urged journalists and other media professionals to leverage technology to stay ahead in their work and embrace the advancements the technology offers their work. “We need to take an experimental risk to absorb change. And the most important thing is understanding the consumption value and provide service around them,” Toriola said. Vice Chancellor, Pan-Atlantic University, Professor Enase Okonedo, said the MTN Innovation Programme came at a perfect time for Nigerian media practitioners to imbibe these pertinent values that the fellowship offers. Okonedo noted that the School of Media and Communication was established to train professionals who will uphold the highest intellectual, ethical and professional values that promote creativity, critical knowledge, social responsibility and the spirit of enterprise. Publisher of Culture Newspaper, Steve Ayorinde, said technology and journalism have become essential for effective journalists to stay on top of their jobs, making traditional and innovative ideals of journalism thrive together. Interested journalists and bloggers can apply for the fellowship on Smc.edu.ng/mtnmip. 