The Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, (NSCDC), has confirmed the invasion and attack of its Imo command by men of the Nigeria Police, leading to the killing of a personnel and the manhandling of the state commandant. Public Relations Officer of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu, who confirmed the attack Tuesday in Abuja, described as unfortunate and disturbing repeated attacks on personnel of the corps by police officers over the years. Odumosu, said the Corps management is currently in talks with the police hierarchy to ensure justice and bring an end to continual aggression by police officers towards officials of the NSCDC. Heavily armed men of the squadron 18 mobile police in Owerri invaded the headquarters of the Imo State Command of the NSCDC Imo on Monday, shooting sporadically into the air, beating NSCDC officers. It was alleged that the policemen held the officer’s hostage after invading the premises, beat the commandant, Mr. Michael Ogar, who on hearing the commotion came out of his office to broker peace. Ogar’s uniform was torn to shreds as the angry policemen strip him down to his boxers before taking him to an undisclosed location. The attack was reported to have been triggered after a mild argument broke earlier between the convoy of the commandant which was returning from Abacheke, a bunkering site where scores were said to have been burnt to death, and plainclothes police who mounted a roadblock on the road. A heated argument ensued when the plainclothes policeman, who declined to identify himself or rank, refused to let the convoy pass through. When the NSCDC team went ahead and passed through the barricade, the enraged policeman allegedly followed the convoy to the NSCDC headquarters, pulled out his pistol and threatened to shoot the commandant’s driver. His pistol was wrestled out of his hand to prevent any shooting. One officer Ikechukwu, (last name withheld), was reported to have claimed that the plainclothes policeman went to mobilise other policemen, who then stormed the NSCDC state headquarters, held its personnel hostage, manhandled the commandant, beat up other officers, wreaked havoc and shot the driver of the commandant who drove through the roadblock. “Our management has already reached out to the police hierarchy so that all these police attacks on our men will be well dealt with,” Odumosu said. “We are not going to be casting aspersions at this point, but the public can be the judge of these attacks and constant display of aggression towards the us.”