As part of efforts aimed at achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Agenda 2030 in Nigeria, United Nations Information Centre (UNIC), Lagos and Media Awareness and Information For All Network (MAIN) recently trained journalists in Borno and Kano States as well as Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja.
 
While declaring the workshop open in Maiduguri, Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, said President Buhari is commitment to the successful implementation of the SDGs in the country, adding that the goals couldn’t be achieved without full participation of the media.  “Your role includes sensitisation, education, advocacy, amplification and collaboration. All hands must be on deck to build a better nation and a world where ‘no one is left behind.”
  
Director, UNIC, Ronald Kayanja, who spoke on “Unveiling Sustainability,” advised journalists to neutralise fake news and misinformation around sustainability issues by reporting facts, good practices and solutions within Nigeria and from around the world; integrate sustainability in news reporting features, documentaries, talk shows and other formats.  The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, Matthias Schmale, also called for a stronger partnership with the media in the implementation of the SDGs. He said: “Media play a critical role in achieving Agenda 2030, which includes ensuring citizens are well-informed to enable them to form opinions based on facts. Factual and evidence-based reporting is critical in this period of fake news.” Chairman of MAIN and Professor of Mass Communication, Lagos State University (LASU), Lai Oso, who spoke on, “Introducing Sustainability Journalism,” observed that sustainable development is a transformative initiative that meets the needs of today without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
   
To him, the main focus of sustainability journalism should be reporting SDGs based on knowledge and understanding; explore linkages, relationships and connections within the context of environmental sustainability. It also focuses on how to foster dialogue towards finding solutions to problems, comprehensive reporting, promoting multiple perspectives, focusing on context and process, not just events and occurrence, offering explanation and interpretation and giving less emphasis on the negative and the sensational.  Others, he said are to strengthen the capacity of participants in sustainability reporting with emphasis on economic, social and environmental dimensions; to deepen participants’ knowledge of the role of women in sustainable development and to establish a “Sustainability Journalists’ Network” that will engage regularly to report and view development initiatives in Nigeria from the prism of sustainability.
   
National Information Officer, UNIC, Seyi Soremekun, while speaking in Abuja, urged journalists to ensure their news reports and features have depth in sustainability.  He said institutional frameworks have been established at the national and sub-national levels to support the effective implementation of the SDGs.
   
He, however, identified challenges mitigating against actualisation of the SDGs as, dwindling financial resources; the COVID-19 pandemic and persistent insecurity across the country.
   
Ruqayyah Yusuf Aliyu of the Faculty of Communication, Bayero University, Kano, spoke on ‘’Gender Inequality and the Sustainable Development Goal.” 