Vice president Yemi Osinbajo said he has been training to be Nigeria’s president for seven years. Osinbajo, who deputies President Muhammadu Buhari, said he has experiences of things in government that many people are not aware of. “I have served for the past seven years as the Vice President of Nigeria, and I have also acted within that period when the President was away,” Osinbajo said at the palace of the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Ogunlade Aladetoyinbo, while on a visit to Ondo State. “I think that I am fortunate, and we are fortunate to have been given tremendous opportunities to serve, also even when I acted (as President). READ MORE: VP Osinbajo finally declares to run for president “In that capacity, I am probably the only person trained to be (in that duration), because if you have been a Vice President and also as Acting President, then you have been trained and I must say with utmost humility, that is exactly how I feel. “I feel that with what God has given me within the past seven and half years, I must be able to give to my country.” Osinbajo noted that he offers Nigeria a different type of leadership if he becomes president. On the motivation to run for office Osinbajo said, “as we approach the coming elections, it is a time for us to reflect on the type of leadership that we want for our country. “People die for this country every day; there are young men and women, soldiers who die for this country every day…That is the greatest act of loyalty that one can have for one’s country. Those of us whom God has given some opportunities to serve must be prepared to offer that service whenever we are called upon to do so.” The Monarch prayed for the Vice President’s success in attaining his objective, saying “had it been it were in advanced countries, in all of the APC, nobody would run (for president), they would all just support you.” The Vice President also spoke at a meeting with the Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, members of the State House of Assembly, State Executive Council members and the APC leaders in in Akure, the State capital. “In those capacities as VP and acting president in particular, I got to know so many things that many people would never have ever have come across, and I gained a lot of experience on that account. Now, the opportunity has come,” Osinbajo said. Osinbajo stated that it would be a disservice to the nation on his part not to utilise the wealth of experience he has garnered over the years to further serve the nation in the highest capacity. “With the experience I have with all the contacts and connections that I have made, nationally and internationally, I think that it would be a betrayal to our nation… with all that has been given to me by the grace of God, with all my experience, to say that, oh, I will now retire quietly either to Lagos or Ikenne and go and be writing my memoirs; it would be a grave injustice to our country. “That is why I decided to pour my heart into it and ensure that I make up this case for the position of president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I will have the opportunity to give this nation the very best that I can give, with all of our hearts, in everything that we can, with sincerity, openness and transparency. That is the desire of my heart.” Governor Akeredolu recalled that the emergence of Professor Osinbajo in 2014 as APC Vice Presidential candidate was purely divine, saying it is God who ultimately decides who gets what position. He said that he and the VP had been friends and colleagues for a long while before politics. 