 Leading Pan-African Payments Company Cellulant (Cellulant.io) and it's all-in-one Payments gateway Tingg (Tingg.Africa), have won 4 awards in the just-concluded World Business Outlook Awards (https://bit.ly/3xCvPXa);  The World Business Outlook is a Singapore-based print and online magazine providing coverage and analysis of the financial industry, international business and the global economy. It is driven to serve its readers, viewers, and attendees with comprehensive business updates.  Cellulant is winning the World Business Outlook Awards for the second year. The Company won two awards in 2021 as the: “Leading Financial Technology Company in Africa 2021” and “Best Digital Payment Service provider in Africa 2021.”  “The World Business Outlook Awards has an eye for industry mastery and value, and this recognition for Cellulant and Tingg is a great honour. Receiving these awards is a testament to the trust of our customers around the world who have partnered with us to power their growth,” stated Cellulant’s Group Head of Global Marketing and Communication Divine Muragijimana  Commenting further on the recognition, she adds, “More importantly, this recognition celebrates our team across Africa and their hard work in building a payments platform that is solving the high payment fragmentation experienced by businesses and their customers across the continent.” Cellulant provides a single API payments platform that enables global, regional and local businesses to collect payments online and offline; while allowing anyone to pay from their mobile money, local and international cards or directly from their bank. Today, Cellulant has an office presence in 18 countries with a payments platform connecting thousands of businesses with 257 payment options across 35 countries. The platform powers payments for 200M consumers on a single inclusive network for interoperability across Africa.  Other winners at the awards include; African Elite Group as the “Most Recommended PR Agency Africa 2022” and “Best Boutique PR Agency Africa 2022.” KPMG also won as the Best Financial Service Provider Nigeria 2022 and Best ESG Financial Services Provider Nigeria 2022. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Cellulant. Media Inquiries:
Prudence Komu
media@cellulant.io
Cellulant.io 
Tingg.Africa