Workers in the 21 local councils of Anambra State are to stay home as of today, following the directive of Governor Chukwuma Soludo that all council secretariats be shut. Last Monday, the state government, South East traditional and religious rulers had held a day of prayer in all churches to mark the end of Monday sit-at-home with effect from April. According to The Guardian checks, the shutdown of the local council system was due to a purported letter by a faceless group warning workers to stay off work or be ready to face the music. The killing of a security guard and the burning of two buildings in Nnewi South, followed by burning of three buildings at Aguata Local Council a few days after, The Guardian gathered, is an indication that the local council system had become the target of the gunmen. To stem further killing and arson, Soludo, at the weekend, ordered council workers to stay off their offices, as they would be shut down immediately. Meanwhile, the governor has alleged that 85 per cent of the hoodlums arrested over insecurity across the state were non-indigenes, while 15 per cent were from other states. Soludo, who disclosed this after inspecting the arson at Aguata council secretariat, Ekwulobia, contended that armed criminals had been operating as kidnappers, armed robbers and rapists, among others, for about two years from camps in Aguluezechukwu and Ogboji, in Aguata and Orumba South local councils respectively. He said that security personnel in the state clamped down on them and they went to set Aguata council headquarters ablaze. Soludo restated his resolve to offer amnesty to those who are in the bush, for them to become useful to society, but warned that those who refused the offer should be ready to face the law. He assured the people of the state that peace and stability must return to Anambra in particular and the South East zone in general. “Anybody in the bush is a criminal and will be treated as such. We will come after criminals because the people’s power must triumph. We must create a livable and prosperous homeland where peace, security and progress thrive,” he added.