Federal Government has eased the nationwide midnight curfew and limitations on gatherings along with other restrictions imposed in 2019 to curb the spread of coronavirus. This is after the country recorded 3,142 deaths from 255,468 cases since the start of the pandemic, according to data obtained from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) website. The Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19 made this known in a statement, yesterday. It said: “The removal of restrictions was decided in view of the declining number of cases, reduced risk of importation of new variants, as well as availability of vaccines. “The nationwide curfew imposed from midnight to 4:00 a.m. has been lifted.” Federal Government also asked civil servants to go back to their offices with proof of vaccination or a “PCR test of not more than 48hrs”. In the statement, private companies were asked to continue implementing measures to limit the spread of the virus at work. The limitation on the number of persons and 50 per cent limit on persons attending religious gatherings were also lifted but attendees must use facemasks. In a document dated April 2, the PSC said: “Use of facemask is mandatory for indoor activities but at individual’s discretion during outdoor activities. “No limitation on air travels – both domestic and international flights. Both international and domestic travellers must abide by all existing protocols, including the use of facemask while on board and taking personal precaution measures. No limitations on inter or intra-state travel. “However it is advisable to continue measures that will reduce congestion in office spaces such as virtual meetings, working from home or on-and-off days.” THIS came as Senate urged Ministry of Foreign Affairs to liaise with the Ghanaian government to strengthen bilateral relations between both countries to prevent maltreatment of Nigerians entering Ghana. This was contained in recommendations of the chamber after it considered a report by the Joint Committee on Health (Secondary and Tertiary), Primary Health and Communicable Diseases, and Foreign Affairs. The report was titled: ‘Urgent Need to Conduct Investigation on Allegation of Fake COVID-19 Test Results Being Used to Defraud Nigerians in Ghana, and Obtainment of Fake COVID-19 Vaccination Cards’. Chairman of the Joint Committee, Senator Yahaya Oloriegbe, in his presentation, recalled that the investigation was necessitated by allegations that Ghanaian authorities diagnose Nigerians who travel to their country positive to COVID-19, even after testing negative in Nigeria. He said it was alleged that Nigerians were committed to isolation for two weeks at N70,000 daily, running into millions of naira. 