 A team of peacekeepers from the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) recently visited Magwi, Eastern Equatoria, where the resident farming community has been in the epicenter of conflict with semi-nomadic animal herders.  “We are suffering,” stated Beda Makwe, a community leader from Mugali payam [administrative division], located within Magwi, simply yet eloquently to peacekeepers. “Cattle herders have staged roadblocks, destroyed homes and farms, prevented us from accessing water points such as the Achwa river and shoot at the livestock we farmers own. These are insecure times, and we need all the help we can get,” he continued. The patrol team were speaking with a group of traditional leaders in Mugali who raised further concerns about the presence of cattle herders leading to a decline in agricultural activities as well as the general feeling of fear among communities. “When herders steal our livestock, it jeopardizes our way of life and our children’s futures. I urge the government to help us,” revealed Azo Joseph, head chief of the payam. UNMISS peacekeepers also heard accounts of intimidation and use of physical force against settled communities. The state government has spearheaded initiatives to relocate cattle herders away from farmlands before they return to their own states, but progress on this front is slow. “We have had discussions with government representatives where we urged them to ensure that herding animals be kept away from croplands, but we haven’t seen much movement on that score,” said Richard Mele Moses, payam administrator of Pageri. Cattle herders have reportedly vacated Agoro, Chomboro, Ayii and Abara, but residents remain apprehensive that this is a temporary reprieve. “Herders often move in a meandering fashion, leaving many signs—solar panels, tents and utensils—that they intend to return,” averred Taban Ramson, a youth leader from Abara. Displaced from her home by herders, Mary Achiro Elia, a women’s representative from Ayii, too insists that the upheavals caused by the influx of animal breeders isn’t over. “We don’t feel safe enough to return to our homes yet and need help to construct shelters. Plastic sheets or tents would be appreciated, especially as the rainy season is about to begin,” she requested. However, community leaders and traditional chiefs are encouraging people to return and start farming their lands once again. “Our people have suffered a lot and we do not want to add to our collective burdens by having a poor yield which will lead to widespread hunger. We hope humanitarian assistance will reach us soon and encourage communities to return,” explained Onen David, a leader from Abara. The UNMISS patrol team also visited Agoro Chomboro, Ayii and Abara to assess the situation and understand how communities can be emboldened to return to their original homes and land. “We are grateful that you have shared your concerns with us so candidly,” said Christine Foni, team leader of the integrated patrol. “We will convey your messages to our humanitarian and government partners.” Earlier this month, a massive influx of semi-nomadic cattle herders disrupted life for settled farming communities in Magwi and led to an upsurge of violence. Discord began when hungry animals began grazing uncontrollably on farmlands, destroying precious food crops cultivated by settled communities in Pageri, Abara, Agoro, Omeyo, Ayii, Nyolo, and parts of western Torit county. More than 14,000 displaced people sought refuge in Magwi central payam while another estimated 1,000 are facing dire humanitarian shortages in Ayii. Following this rapid escalation of clashes, UNMISS rallied its peacekeepers and stepped up its presence in and around the area. Since then, Blue Helmets with the UN Peacekeeping mission have continued engaging with local communities, authorities and government partners to find ways to restore calm and stability. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).