Onoja was arrested not kidnapped, says Foundation 
Gunmen have kidnapped the traditional ruler of Bukpe community in Kwali Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), HRH Hassan Shamidozhi. Chief Imam of Bukpe Central Mosque, Malam Jibrin Gimba, who is also the monarch’s brother, confirmed this to newsmen, yesterday. He said the incident happened around 9:32p.m. on Wednesday, adding that the monarch, who was seated in front of his palace taking fresh air, was whisked away at gunpoint. “I just walked into my house when he said he wanted to take some shower after which he would come out to relax in front of his palace to take some fresh air. “Few minutes later, I started hearing gunshots. I watched through my window as the kidnappers whisked him away,” he stated. Gimba, who said the abductors have not made any contact with the family, noted that the attack was the third in the community. According to him, hours after the abduction, some policemen visited the community. Spokesperson of the FCT police command, DSP Josephine Adeh, did not respond to inquiries on the incident as of press time. ALSO, a Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) officer, Mu’awiya Gambo, and his son, Samaila, were kidnapped from Kofar Gayan low-cost housing estate in Zaria Local Council of Kaduna State. The Guardian gathered that the gunmen also kidnapped four passers-by in the community, but two later escaped. When contacted to confirm the development, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of Kaduna, ASP Mohammed Jalige, told The Guardian that he would revert after finding out about the incident from the Zaria Area Command. Details of the incident remained sketchy at press time, as neither the state government nor security operatives issued a statement. But it was gathered that the kidnappers trailed Gambo from his family house in Zaria to his residence in the low-cost estate. A source said the assailants forced their way into his house and abducted him and his son about 9:00p.m. on Wednesday. THE President/Founder of Enemona Josh Humanitarian Foundation, David Onoja, was also whisked away by gunmen in police uniform from his house at Wada Road, Lokoja, Kogi State. According to a family source, Onoja was picked from his house around 10:30a.m., yesterday, by six men with AK-47 rifles. But the foundation later said he was not kidnapped but arrested. The Executive Director, Williams Illah, alleged that Onoja was taken away by the police, who have neither confirmed nor denied the story. As of press time, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP William Aya, had still not responded to calls and messages to his phone. 