Air France-KLM has reiterated its commitment to serve its customers better across the world while sustaining the partnership between the Nigerian and Dutch governments. The airline, which made this known while celebrating its 75 years of flying from Lagos to other major cities in the world, said the milestone demonstrates the market’s strong confidence in the brand. The Executive Vice-President, Commercial Division, Pieter Bootsma, stated that in the past 75 years, the airline has been connecting travelers to the world with direct flights between Lagos and Schiphol, adding that Nigeria is a great market with huge potential. Bootsma said that Africa and, indeed, Nigeria have always been a cornerstone in the network of KLM, adding that to have Africa in its network is very important as customers from the continent are all over the world. He said: “Africa is a very important part of the network and Air France-KLM group is the main player between Europe and Africa.” The Country Manager, Christine Quantin, said the vision of the airline is to move travellers across while creating memorable experiences, adding that the airline has strived to embody the vision in all aspects of its business. “For these 75 years, we have connected worlds for business, love and friendships. From global instabilities to changing economic conditions, KLM has successfully navigated the evolving landscape and we have also been able to maintain our operation. “We are more committed to the great country of Nigeria, committed to continuing connecting Nigeria to the rest of the world for many more decades to come. We are delighted to be celebrating 75 years of KLM taking to the Nigerian skies and showcasing our commitment to our Nigerian customers. Sustainable as possible,” Quantin said. She further said that KLM has maintained its network as much as possible, adding that together with its sister company, Air France, it now offers up to 15 weekly flights out of Nigeria, making it the oldest and biggest operator of the country. “In the past months, we have seen demand for air travel increasing as COVID-19 restrictions are lifted in the Netherlands and other EU countries. KLM has responded by expanding capacity on European routes by 10 per cent compared to last year, almost matching the 2019 pre-pandemic level,” she said. Quantin said KLM also expects business travel to return, saying that was the reason it has added frequencies to British, German and Polish routes. While noting that KLM would continue to contribute to Nigeria’s economy through sustainable initiatives, Quantin added: “We cannot forget to thank our customers who have remained loyal to our brand even through turbulent times. Through their continued support, they have given us a reason to operate for seven and a half decades.”