Abiodun Olatunji, Senior Advocate of Nigeria is a partner at Abdullahi Ibrahim & Co. In this interview with JOSEPH ONYEKWERE (Deputy Editor), he shares his views on the novel decision that ordered the removal of governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, controversial section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022 and the rejection of special seats for women by the House of Representatives. A Federal High Court, Abuja recently ordered Governor David Umahi and 16 lawmakers of Ebonyi state to immediately vacate their offices due to defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressive Congress (APC). What lesson(s) should politicians learn from this judgment?
The Judgment of the Federal High Court, delivered in the action filed by the PDP against the governor Umahi, his deputy, Dr. Eric Kelechi Igwe, the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), is currently being tested at the Court of Appeal and whatever the decision of the Court of Appeal would be, a further appeal to the Supreme Court for a final determination of the issues would certainly be made by any of the parties to the action. The same goes for the judgment of the Federal High Court in a separate action filed by the PDP against 16 members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly who defected alongside the governor and his deputy.  So, it is imperative that we wait to see how the pendulum will swing at the appellate courts. Suffice to say at this point that the decision of the Federal High Court was like a bolt from the blues. Nobody saw it coming. 
 
This is so because no governor has been removed from office by judicial order on the grounds of defection, since the return of democratic rule in 1999. This was notwithstanding the fact that there had been several defections by governors from the party that sponsored their election to the opposition party. The fact that no governor had been sanctioned by way of removal from office for defecting from the party on the platform of which he got to power to another party had emboldened many governors to defect or threaten defection at the slightest provocation or even where there is absolutely no reason to justify such defection or threat of defection.  When Amaechi and others defected and nothing happened, it was a signal, albeit, dangerous one, to others that future defections will go unpunished. Similar defections happened during the 2019 general elections. It is, therefore, a political event that has come to be associated with every general election in Nigeria. When the governor of Ebonyi defected to the APC, what reason did he give?  He said he was defecting to the ruling APC because the PDP, which sponsored his election, has not guaranteed that its presidential ticket for the 2023 elections will be given to a candidate from the South East. That has nothing to do with good governance, it has nothing to do with the provision of dividends of democracy to the good people of Ebonyi State, it has nothing to do with the implementation of the manifesto of the PDP, which the people of Ebony bought into and on the basis of which they voted massively for the PDP and its candidates. 
  
It simply shows that the governor defected in pursuit of his personal ambition. He had since gone ahead to inform Mr. President of his desire to succeed him in 2023. The 16 members of the State House of Assembly, who defected with him did not do so because they were convinced that the APC manifesto is superior to that of the PDP or has more to offer the people of Ebony or because they believe that the APC will handover its presidential ticket for the 2023 general elections to a candidate of an Igbo extraction. They defected with the governor because they knew from experience that if any of them should take a principle stand against him, such a member is not only dead politically, but dead and buried financially. So, for them, it was a question of political and financial survival. 
  
The control that the governors have on members of States Houses of Assembly is unbelievable. In fact, virtually all the States’ Houses of Assembly owe their survival to total submission to the whims and caprices of the governors. They sit only to give legislative approvals to what the governors have decided.
  
Talking about lessons for politicians, I should say that politicians are poor students of history. They are only concerned about the spoils of the office. It matters not to them what negative effect or outcome a particular decision will have as long as such decision meets the political exigency of the time. What is paramount for the average politician is that his interest is protected. Sadly, it is not the interest of the people but the parochial and self-centered interest of the political class. Once that assurance is secured, what comes next is in the womb of time.  My take on it all is that there is an order of the court, which struck down Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, until that order is set aside by a superior court of competent jurisdiction, Section 84 (12) as at today is not part of the Electoral Act, 2022. As to the policy rationale behind the lawmaker’s insertion of the provision of Section 84 (12) (now deleted by an order of the Federal High Court), I see it more as the political actors playing their games.  It is all about survival. Those who inserted the provision are only concerned about protecting their interest and not the interest of the masses of this country, while those opposed to it are simply not comfortable with the advantage that the political appointees will by virtue of their position in government, including access to public fund, power and influence, have over their challengers, who do not have access to state resources. I think we need to focus more on how to reduce the level of poverty among our people, by creating jobs, funding education more and encouraging our children to go to school, so as to raise the literacy level and by extension political awareness, which ultimately will de-emphasise and whittle down the influence of money and power play in our political contest.
 
The House of Representatives recently rejected a bill seeking to provide special seats for women at the National Assembly, in political party administration and inclusion of at least 10 per cent affirmative action in ministerial appointments. What is your take on this?
The initial votes of the House of Representatives to reject the bills on indigeneship, citizenship and 35 per cent affirmative action for women was rather a sad one. It is, however, gratifying that the House had since rescinded its earlier decision and has now voted to recommend the bills for consideration as part of the proposed amendments to the Constitution. Nigerian women deserve better treatment. They are the ones that attend party meetings, campaigns and vote during elections but unfortunately, they have the least representation in government and party administration. The bill on citizenship seeks to amend Section 26 of the Constitution to provide for citizenship by registration for foreign spouses of Nigerian women, while the bill on affirmative action seeks to amend Section 223 of the Constitution to ensure that at least 35 per cent of political party offices are constitutionally guaranteed for Nigerian women. These two bills and the bill on indigeneship, which seek to allow women to become indigene of their husbands’ states after five years of marriage should immediately be passed by both chambers of the National Assembly and concurred to by the states. Citizenship for the foreign spouses of our women, indigenship of the states of their husbands and 35 per cent seats in the administration of political parties should be guaranteed as fundamental rights for our women. They deserve no less. citizenship and 35 per cent affirmative action for women was rather a sad one. It is, however, gratifying that the House had since rescinded its earlier decision and has now voted to recommend the bills for consideration as part of the proposed amendments to the Constitution.