 The AUB’s (www.uar-AUB.org) International Workshop on “The future of spectrum for broadcasting” was launched on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, in Dakar, Senegal.  The workshop welcomed delegates from the following countries: Senegal (RTS, E-Media Invest, TDS), Benin, Nigeria, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Cameroon, Rwanda, Angola, Niger, Guinea Conakry, Kenya, Comoros, Namibia, Algeria, Cape Verde, Mali, ATU’s Radiocommunications Coordinator and the representatives of the World Broadcasting Unions’ Technical Committee (WBU-TC).  The solemn ceremony was chaired by Mrs Evelyne T. FAYE, representing the AUB Chief Executive Officer, who highlighted the position of the Union regarding the management of the spectrum in the African audiovisual landscape. Mr. Lars Backlund, Secretary General of Broadcast Network Europe (BNE) presented the White paper which explores the importance of protecting the sub-700 MHz Band for terrestrial broadcasting. The white paper was compiled on behalf of the AUB, the EBU and BNE to provide a basis for an informed decision in connection with the upcoming World Radiocommunications Conference 2023. It also explains the challenges and risks of allocating spectrum to telecommunications.  Mr Walid Sami, Senior Project Manager at the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) laid an emphasis on the legal and socio-economic aspects of the 2023 World Radiocommunications Conference.  According to Mr. Ousseinou Dieng, special envoy of Senegal’s Ministry of Culture and Communication: “We must focus on development issues. At the international level, we have had meetings with UNESCO to defend the issue of access to information through SDG 16.10 where the media are struggling not only to guarantee freedom of expression but also to access information. The COVID19 pandemic proved us right because we were forced to rely solely on a few community radio stations to track down and fight Covid in remote areas. We must broaden the spectrum because our ambition is to have community televisions with a pronounced cultural diversity.”  Mr Amadou Diop, Director General of Télédiffusion du Sénégal (TDS) spelled out the different strategies to put in place in order to raise the level of debates. According to him, African broadcasters are usually absent where technical decisions are taken concerning the management of the spectrum. He therefore urged governments to pay attention to the call of broadcasters concerning the “No Change position” for the attribution of the 700MHz Band Spectrum.  Participants had the opportunity to share experiences following their respective regions (SADC, ECOWAS, EACO). They were also upskilled on the best approach to defend the continent’s position during the 2023 WRC. Debates were moderated by Mrs Audrey Kamsu, in charge of the AUB Network of Content Exchange and Mr Joe Frans, AUB Expert. Workshop Day 1 also witnessed the participation of Mrs Rokhaya Ndiaye, AUB’s Head of Relations and Mrs Judith Kugonza, AUB’s Head of Finance. AUB Workshop Day 2 will enable participants to come up with solid recommendations and resolutions for a better management of 700 MHz Band Spectrum. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Union of Broadcasting (AUB). Contact:
Irene Gaouda
Media and Communication Officer
African Union of Broadcasting
gaouda.irene@uar-aub.org
contact@uar-aub.org