The recent declaration of the member, representing Etinan/Nsit Ibom/Nsit Ubium in the House of Representatives and former Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr. Onofiok Luke to contest for the governorship, under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP, has changed the political calculation in the state.
  
He is determined to contest the party ticket with other aspirants, including the Senator representing Akwa Ibom North-East Senatorial District and former Commissioner for Finance, Bassey Akpan; former Commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport, Akan Okon; and Chief Executive Officer of Falcon Oil & Gas, Ani Wellington.
  
Since last year when the state governor, Udom Gabriel Emmanuel had openly declared his support for his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umo Eno to succeed him in office, many thought other members of the party with aspirations to govern the state in 2023, should have looked elsewhere but that did not deter Luke, who looks better prepared for the office.
   
For those who are familiar with the political trajectory of the first Speaker of Nigerian Youth Parliament and former President, Student’s Union Government (SUG), University of Uyo, were not surprised with Luke’s ability to spring surprises to secure the ticket.  “We have been blessed with good leaders who have contributed in great measure towards the development of the state, with transformative projects and progressive policies in areas such as Agriculture, Education, and Infrastructure etc. “One example of such transformative policies is the area of education, free and compulsory education programme, which was initiated by the administration of his Excellency, Governor Godswill Obot Akpabio and sustained by the administration of Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel with the aim of improving access to the education for young people. “Our state’s Aviation development is another example in this regard. The Victor Attah International airport was initiated by Governor Victor Attah. The airport was built by Governor Godswill Akpabio whose administration landed the first plane and commenced commercial activities.
  
“Governor Emmanuel has since continued with this vision leading to the birthing of an airline- Ibom Air and the implementation of various improvements at the airport and today effort is being made towards the completion of the MRO
  
“Today, Ibom Air is the envy of other airline operators, and a symbol of the innovation and willpower that Akwa Ibom State possesses. This is evidence of the synergy and continuity in policy implementation that has existed in our state, and that is why, we intend to also continue building upon the achievements of previous and present administrations; add our own initiatives, all aimed at positioning us for a broad-based prosperity.
  
“These policies’ continuity, adaption and improvement can also be seen in the deep seaport development and in the agricultural sector etc.”
  
While responding to his critics, who he said have wrongly judged him, the young politician said: “To those who feel I’m too young and those who feel I have spent so many years in public service, have I been found wanting in character, competence and delivery throughout my spell in the different offices I have occupied?
   
“As every human is prone to be, I may not be perfect in the discharge of my mandates but I know the heart I have for humanity and the passion I have for service; a passion that has led me to be selfless in my years of public service.
   
“I invite and urge you therefore to make the Amazing Grace Project your preferred choice for the governorship of our dear state come 2023.”  