Download logo Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TİKA) provided summer and winter sports equipment and training materials for athletes with hearing and speech impairment in Tripoli, the capital of Libya.  At the delivery ceremony held at the Training Center for People with Hearing and Speech Impairment, Kenan Yılmaz, Türkiye’s Ambassador to Tripoli, said, “Spending time with these young people boosted our energy as well.” Yılmaz noted that such gestures, which will contribute to the reintegration of children into the society and help them become successful international athletes in their own branches in the future, are of special importance due to the deep-rooted ties of solidarity between Türkiye and Libya dating back to 500 years. Yılmaz said, “We met with children on the occasion of Ramadan. I would like to thank TİKA for such assistance activities and its contribution to the relations between the two countries. I wish Libyan athletes success in their future endeavors.” Gıyaseddin Karatepe, TİKA’s Coordinator in Libya, stated that they implemented a project for the donation of sports equipment and training materials for young and child athletes and football players in order to support the sports activities of Libyan young people with hearing and speech impairment. Karatepe noted that they carried out this activity in cooperation with the OIA Club for Deaf and Hard of Hearing, and said, “We delivered summer and winter sports equipment, football balls, and athletic training materials to 75 young athletes. The club, which has successful athletes, came in fifth in African football tournaments. Our support will continue increasingly.” As part of the “Project for the Donation of Clothing and Training Materials for the Athletes of the OIA Club for Deaf and Hard of Hearing,” 650 different materials were distributed to the athletes. TİKA will hold iftar dinners and distribute food parcels containing staples to those in need across the country during the entire month of Ramadan. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TIKA).