Victor Anichebe insists Everton will ‘100 per cent go down’ if they don’t sack Frank Lampard, following their defeat to Burnley, reports metro.co.uk. With nine games to go, a 3-2 defeat for the Toffees on Wednesday night meant Burnley closed the gap and Everton now sits one point above the relegation zone. Lampard only took charge in January but has lost six of his eight Premier League games so far and with tricky fixtures still to come, fans are fearing the worst. During Wednesday night’s game, former Everton striker Anichebe was vocal on Instagram with several posts. He wrote: “Too late… should’ve brought him on 10 minutes ago it was obvious… DCL (Dominic Calvert-Lewin) has been poor. “The players aren’t good enough but neither is Frank. As much as I love him as a player and he looks a top guy. Everton will 100 per cent go down if a change isn’t made.” The Merseyside club have not been relegated since 1951 and Anichebe feels Premier League survival specialist, Allardyce, is exactly who they need to keep them up. Allardyce previously managed Everton during his six-month stay at the club from November 2017 to May 2018, while his last spell in management saw him fail to keep West Brom up last season. Along with a picture of Allardyce, Anichebe wrote: “I said it weeks ago… y’all laughed. Some said rather go down with dignity.” He later added: “Apologies if I don’t respond tonight, I just can’t be bothered. So… the players are responsible first and foremost, but Everton’s board is absolutely horrendous. “The money they’ve wasted, the sackings of influential staff like (Dan Donachie), not letting Marcel Brands actually do his job, bringing in Rafa (Benitez), as well as creating a complete disconnect with fans and club. “Next – appointing Lampard (who is a good coach) but appointing him when you know you’re in a relegation battle with a tough run in… was absurd… him getting Alli who is a luxury player… in a relegation fight… baffling. “If something doesn’t happen tonight, they are 100 per cent going down. At the moment, it’s 60 per cent. Keep the faith.” Everton is next in action against Manchester United tomorrow. 