 Toyin Abraham As part of efforts to further engage its teeming customers, Avila Naturalle Nigeria, has unveiled multi-talented actress and filmmaker, Toyin Abraham Ajeyemi, as its brand Ambassador. According to the natural skincare products manufacturer, the unveiling, which took place in Lagos was in tandem with the company’s ongoing campaign tagged, ‘share a soap with someone.’ The company’s Director, Brands and Marketing, Mr. Sylvester Iriogbe, said: “We have followed Toyin Abraham’s creative works; we appreciate her contributions to the Nigerian society through the entertainment industry. Her inspirational attributes serve as a source of motivation to the younger generation, helping them to understand and appreciate the importance of hard work, self-belief and resilience in achieving their dreams. “We believe Toyin possesses a distinctive talent and robust experience as a prominent creative artistes and other noble qualities that we believe connect to our brand.” Toyin Abraham commended the partnership, saying Avila is a brand that she is happy to work with because the products are truly natural. She said: “Avila is a big brand; they are the number one natural skincare manufacturer in Africa. I realised that this is the kind of brand I want to be associated with and I like the fact that their products are natural and very affordable. That is the true Nigerian spirit,” she said. Iriogbe, explained that Avila product is a fast-growing truly-natural body care manufacturing company in Africa. “Since our inception, the company has continued to redefine the Nigerian skincare terrain by promoting the usage of natural, healthy and safe products through our array of skincare, haircare, mouth care and foot care brands. With over 300 body care products that are purely natural, without any harmful chemical substance. “Avila is committed to helping Nigerians break free from harmful chemical-based skincare products in line with its vision to inspire a healthier and happier world.” 