President Muhammadu Buhari has noted that despite the number of votes he garnered from South East in 2019’s presidential poll, his administration has continued to be equitable in the distribution of projects and amenities to the zone. He said his government is still trying to maintain security there and many other areas, assuring that he will continue to do his best for every part of the country considering that “we are one nation under God.” The President spoke, yesterday, in Abuja through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, at the public presentation of the book, ‘APGA and the Igbo Question,’ written by Dr. Chekwas Okorie. The event, which held at the Ladi Kwali Hall, Sheration Hotel, attracted many important dignitaries, including the former chairman of Police Service Commission, Chief Simeon Okeke; Minister for Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Edozie Njoku; former Aviation Minister, Osita Chidoka, for; mer Anambra State governorship aspirant, Axuka Okwuosa, among others. President Buhari said the author, Chekwas Okorie, “is a man who wants the best for his people. He saw far ahead and aligned with us towards the 2019 polls.” Buhari further said: “Okorie tried to bring his people to our side; he visited me with some illustrious Igbo sons and pledged to rally the Igbo behind me in 2019 so that the nature of politics and political alliances in the region will change.” He went on: “I appreciated and still appreciate his wise decision. If Okorie succeeded, that is for historians to decide after studying the results of the 2019 Poll. The results are out there and when we study those results, it will help us to know whether what Okorie wanted for the Igbo nation was what came to pass. “Irrespective of the results we recorded, seeing what we have done in that part of the country. We have built roads, we have built the second Niger bridge, we still try to maintain security there and many others. We will do our best for every part of the country, we are one nation under God.” 