FITC is championing the adoption of development and implementation of technology-driven staff promotion exercises by ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). The exercise, it views, will complement the current performance management system used by MDAs and other public sector entities. According to the Managing Director/CEO FITC, Chizor Malize, FITC has over the past 20 years successfully supported MDAs and regulators to implement a robust and technology-driven staff promotion process, which is based on the globally-recognized FITC Assessment methodology that supports government’s desire in achieving a world-class public service. “FITC Assessment-based staff promotion methodology and tools to ensure unbiased assessment that adds value to organisations with an outstanding level of quality and professionalism. Beyond assessment, the outcome of FITC exercise identifies talent management issues and practical interventions for remediating or managing those issues for effective workforce management. “These issues cut across recruitment, workforce planning or manpower planning (for both numbers and quality of staff), career management, succession planning, organisation structure, job design, staff-job-fit and HR transformation,” Malize noted. Part of the FITC Staff Assessment is an objective and in-depth review of the organisations’ examination syllabus or curriculum to ensure it is skill-based, she noted. Experience over the years has shown that most organisations have knowledge-based curricula, which makes employees to only read and pass examination without adding value to their current job or the new role promoted. This has further impacted the level of staff productivity and proficiency of the workforce for effective staff performance. Invariably, there is no value-addition to the organisation as either performance remains the same or the employee struggles to perform at a higher level when promoted. Malize said FITC has distinguished itself by introducing the skill-based assessment curriculum for staff promotion to ensure that employees within the public service are assessed based on skills as applicable to their job function. To solve the challenges, FITC said: “Over the years, FITC has developed the capacity to execute staff promotional examinations efficiently and effectively with specialised experts in human capital development, management and business improvement. “The FITC advisory team is technically skilled in developing and deploying these solutions to our clients. FITCs clientele cuts across both public and private sectors of the Nigerian economy and some international organisations. Through FITC’s innovative culture, proactiveness and confidence, clients are assured of excellent delivery always.” Recently, FITC advisory supported eight organisations including financial regulators and other MDAs in the execution of staff promotional examination projects in a bid to deploy worthy individuals to their aspired job roles. At the exercise, the Commissioner for Insurance (CFI), Mr. Thomas Sunday, applauded the technology innovation deployed and seamless end-to-end execution of the exercise by FITC. FITC has also received several commendations from other regulators such as NDIC, AMCON, ICAN and FMBN for providing support in conducting their staff promotion examination. FITC brings value to the process by offering institutional and individual capacity development recommendations, beyond just publishing assessment results. The organisation has built trustworthiness merited from consistency in delivering top-notch experiences over the last decade. FITCs relationship with key government regulators for over four decades gives the organization insights into the key policies and requirements for the attainment of corporate goals in any organisation. As a technology-driven institution, FITC continues to deliver transparency, integrity, and efficiency in the staff promotional examinations, infusing the best use of digital transformation even in its most recent collaborations with regulators because these processes must be conducted by an external body for credibility. 