Lagos State Government, yesterday, allayed fears of residents of Illubirin, Idumagbo and environs on incessant flood being experienced in the areas, assuring that necessary measures, including the pumping of water from waterlogged areas, are ongoing and will effectively manage the flood. Addressing protesters, who converged at Illubirin in Lagos Island, Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, said a permanent solution which will involve the provision of three bigger pumps of 3000m cube per minutes (M3) is already underway as well as reconstruction of the drainage outlet. Each one of those pumps, he said, will need a generator with a capacity of 400KVA and will be provided to power each of the pumps. Responding to the request for demolition of the natural embankment used to prevent the ingress of water from the lagoon, the Commissioner, who was represented by the director of Drainage Enforcement and Compliance, Mahmoud Adegbite, extended an invitation to five representatives of the protesters to the Office at Alausa on Wednesday for further explanation on need for the embankment. Bello stated that climate change was part of what is being experienced and it is happening all over the world, adding that some cities have not recovered from its effects. He explained that government gets daily reports on the activities going on at Illubirin, adding that a lasting solution to the issue of flooding has been found, urging them to remain calm. According to him, Lagos is part of sinking cities, but the government will never fold its arms and let the untoward happen, adding that Lagos Island is a low lying area, which explains the convergence of water. He added that as a follow up to the meeting with representatives of the protesters on Wednesday, officials of the ministry will also visit Ilubirin on Saturday with residents to have another first-hand experience of the level of the water. Earlier, the spokesperson for the protesters, Mr. Mukadass Maja, called for pulling down of the embarkment, saying it would prevent ingress of water from the lagoon and allow free flow of water. He said many of the streets, shops, mosques, churches, police stations and schools in the areas are seriously flooded and is affecting the economy of the area. Some of the affected areas include Ojo Giwa, Jankara, Idu Garan, Okoya, amongst others. Some of the affected schools are King Ado High School and St. Patrick Primary school.