• Daramola collapses political structure into senator’s
• Popoola, Afolabi canvass level-playing ground for party primary Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Opeyemi Bamidele, has expressed hope that Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State will not rock the All Progressives Congress (APC) boat in the June 18 governorship election. Bamidele spoke in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, when Mr. Bimbo Daramola, who represented Ekiti North Constituency I at the 7th House of Representatives, collapsed his political structure into that of the senator for the January 27 APC primary. The governorship hopeful, who expressed confidence in Fayemi’s leadership, assured that he was not aligning with those plotting to deprive the APC victory in the Ekiti ballot. Also, Daramola described Bamidele’s governorship ambition as a legitimate demand from the party, adding that his contributions surpassed that of every other aspirant in the party. Assuring that many strong politicians would still join his structure the way Daramola did, Bamidele, who is also the Chairman of, Southern Senators’ Forum, stated that many Ekiti eminent sons and daughters were desirous of joining his campaign to pull the state out of the doldrums. Pointing out that his ambition does not amount to anti-party activity, he said: “My ambition is a movement of Ekiti sons and daughters, who believe that it shouldn’t be the same old story in 2018. I am not contesting or joining others to rock the boat of APC. This is a family affair, internal party democracy and primary election. “Governor Fayemi has done well, but there is need for a well-focused and experienced person, who has a scientific understanding of how to move Ekiti forward, to take over from him; someone who loves democracy and Ekiti development. We are not going to fight because the philosophy is the same, our visions are similar and our focus is one.” MEANWHILE, two other aspirants, Demola Popoola and Oluwatoyin Afolabi have enjoined APC leadership to ensure a level-playing field at the primaries. Speaking separately after submitting their expression of interest and nomination forms at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja, they expressed readiness to abide by the decision of the party on the mode of selecting the party’s flagbearer. Popoola, who warned against manipulation of the process leading to the primaries, vowed not to step down for anybody, even for $200 billion. Afolabi, who expressed optimism that he would emerge victorious during the primaries, disclosed that he had developed a document based on his experiences in the United States of America to move Ekiti forward if given an opportunity.