 Cardi B – Etertainment Tonight Cardi B has been awarded an additional $3million in her lawsuit against Youtuber Tasha Kebe (Tasha K) The Bodak Yellow singer was awarded $3million in punitive damages and attorneys’ fees in her lawsuit on Tuesday, January 25. Jurors in the suit ruled that Kebe is responsible for $1 million in punitive damages. According to Variety, her company Kebe Studios LLC was ordered to pay the rapper an additional $500,000. Kebe will also have to reimburse Cardi for the rapper’s legal costs, totalling $1,338,753.47. The Grammy-award-winning rapper has spoken up after receiving the new judgment. Cardi B said, “After almost four years of repeated libel and slander against me, being able to walk away from this victorious brings me great happiness. I appreciate Judge Ray for conducting a fair and impartial trial.” “I am grateful for the jury and their careful deliberation over the past two weeks. I am profoundly grateful for the hard work and support from my legal team. Most importantly, thank you to my family and close friends who held my hand and helped me get the support I needed during this experience.” Referencing her testimony that Kebe’s remarks caused her to be “extremely suicidal,” Cardi added that this was “fueled by the vile, disgusting, and completely false narratives that were repeatedly and relentlessly being shared online.” “I thought I would never be heard or vindicated and I felt completely helpless and vulnerable.” “I have never taken for granted the platform that my fame allows me to have, which is why for over three years I dedicated every resource I had to seek justice.” She added, “The only difference between me and the high schooler who is being cyberbullied and lied on by their classmates is the money and resources I have access to,” she added. “We collectively have to say enough is enough. We can no longer be a society that turns a blind eye to blatant lies. The unchecked behavior and provably false content on platforms like YouTube have to be addressed and removed. The constant harassment and lies that are reported as factual from journalists and bloggers have to end.” The rapper also noted that she understood the power social media has. “So while I am very grateful that this trial has come to its conclusion and the jury has rendered a powerful and substantial message, literally–I really hope that my experience forces all of us, but especially the platforms who allow this behaviour to be a part of their communities, to re-think what moves us forward as a society versus what cripples us.” “If you’re thinking about suicide, are worried about a friend or loved one, or would like emotional support, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline for help at 1-800-273-TALK.” Cardi had also received $1.25million in damages after a trial in federal court in Georgia on Monday.