• PDP must unite to defeat APC, says Adaramodu
• Oyebanji pleads with aspirants to ensure peaceful primary Ahead of the Osun State governorship primary, the Rebirth Group, a pressure body in the All Progressives Congress (APC), has demanded the resignation of Governor Gboyega Oyetola from the party’s caretaker committee. Led by Mr. Aliyu Audu, the group argued that Oyetola’s continued membership of the committee contravenes Section 183 of the 1999 Constitution as amended.
In a statement, it said Oyetola, who will be standing as an aspirant in the forthcoming governorship primary election in Osun State, can’t be a judge in his own case. It, therefore, enjoined the governor to relinquish his membership of the committee, noting that the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) might conduct the primary election for the number one seat in Osun State. The group said: “With our established reputation for respecting laws and rules, the APC cannot continue to disregard a clear constitutional provision as regards the composition of the caretaker committee. It is, therefore, incumbent on all APC leaders, especially President Muhammadu Buhari, to prevail on all governors in the party’s caretaker committee to resign forthwith.” The group added: “While we recommend February 19, 2022 as a feasible date for the convention that will give APC a new set of elected National Working Committee members, we want to reiterate that any attempt by the Buni-led caretaker committee to move the convention any further, under any guise, will be resisted by all means possible.”
THIS came as a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Kayode Adaramodu, warned that relying on a single individual for victory of the party in the June 18 governorship election in the state could be a costly mistake. Adaramodu said unity of purpose and togetherness among party leaders and the members are required for PDP to defeat APC in the contest. Addressing journalists at his campaign office in Ado-Ekiti, at the weekend, the former Deputy Managing Director of Guarantee Trust Bank, said a good opportunity was awaiting PDP in its quest to dislodge APC, if members close ranks and allow civility to reign. He expressed optimism that internal crisis afflicting the chapter would soon be over and party leaders would put aside their differences and unite to rescue Ekiti. Adaramodu said he joined the race to oust the old order, which, according to him, was stunting Ekiti’s growth and development. He promised to replace that order with a new one where the masses would be the cornerstone of government’s actions and policies. MEANWHILE, one of the APC governorship aspirants and former Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, has urged other aspirants to prevail on their supporters to maintain peace before, during and after the January 27 primary election of the party. He urged them to avoid violence, name-calling and slander and instead embrace issues-based campaigns. Speaking in Ado Ekiti, at the weekend, Oyebanji said he was satisfied with the reception accorded him, the frank discussions he had with leaders and stakeholders, and the commitment of APC members to success of the party’s primaries and victory at the June 18 governorship election. 