It was jubilation in the commercial community of Odo-Nla, Ikorodu, Lagos, as the committee on the selection of a new Oba formally presented the name of its Oba-elect, Prince Olusoga Elias Odeyemi Olowolekomoh, the Fuwugbade of Odo Nla (Oyeneru Agbaku I) to the elders, youths and other indigenes, at the Townhall on Thursday. This is coming as the Oba-elect called on all Nigerians to embrace peace going forward, saying peace is the bedrock of development. Head of the committee, Otunba (Asiwaju) David Afolabi Ekiyoyo, AIWM, DCOI, (Omo Oba Meta Odo Nla) the Olotu (Head) of Odeyemi Ofiran Royal Family, who led other members to the community, narrated how the committee arrived at the choice of Prince Olowolekomoh. According to him, the gathering unanimously accepted the candidature of Olowolekomoh, saying he emerged the Oba-elect of Odo-Nla town in December among other five contestants. Six candidates, Princes Kazeem Benson, Olusoji Daudu, Adesegun Ogunkoya, Ademoritan Adeyemi, Adewale Balogun from the Ogbodo and Raselu ruling houses contested for the royal crown as revealed by Otunba Ekiyoyo. However, the Oba-elect, in his New Year message titled, ‘Peace As Bedrock Of Development,’ said no society could make any meaningful progress without peace. He said, “I am of the firm belief that the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo Olu and President Muhammadu Buhari are poised to tackle the insecurity challenges we are facing in the state and across the country at the moment. “We cannot pretend that the nation is presently plagued with a lot of challenges. Chief among them is insecurity, but we can see that there is a concerted effort by both the state and federal governments to end the insecurity problem this year.” The royal father said he was optimistic that the country’s armed forces will totally decimate bandits and Boko Haram terrorists as well as other violent criminals disturbing the peace of the country and her citizens. “It gladdens my heart anytime I hear of the success being recorded by our security operatives against bandits, Boko Haram and kidnappers. I pray for our armed forces daily because they lay down their lives for us to sleep at night. “On the part of government, I pray that it continues to give them the necessary support required to make the nation a peaceful one because without peace, no society can achieve any meaningful development. Peace is the bedrock of development,” he said. He prayed for peace and development in Odo-Nla Kingdom and Nigeria at large, saying, “My reign will pursue peace and development. So, this New Year, I pray for peace in our land. “I pray for prosperity for the people of Odo-Nla and Nigerians, and above all, I call on all Nigerians to embrace peace even as we love one another,” he said. He continued: “I find it pertinent to also acknowledge and appreciate the unique and special support and goodwill gesture of the Lagos State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs with particular reference to the entire staffs and office of the Lagos State governor in the person of his Excellency, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, whose approval and ratification cannot be overstated. “The re-instatement exercise and the attendant rigours could not have been easily overcome without the full encouragement and support of our paramount rulers and royal fathers – Royal Highness, Oba Sikiru Adetona (The Awujale of Ijebu Ode) and Oba Engr. Abdul-Kabir Adewale Shotobi – Adegorushen V (The Ayangburen of Ikorodu) respectively and others. “It’s my commitment to work fervently in synergy and cooperation with my local council functionaries and the entire cabinet members and staffs of Lagos State in harmonising the growth and developmental planning set out for Odo-Nla kingdom for our mutual benefits.” Olowolekomoh paid obeseince to his royal ancestor, Oba Odeyemi Ofiran I, whose throne he has ascended. “Today represents a remarkable step forward in re-setting the milestone that was firmly established by our long gone but not forgotten royal ancestor in the esteemed royal personage of Oba Odeyemi Ofiran l, the Fuwagbade I of Odo-Nla dynasty. 