The Rivers State government has taken over the prosecution of Chidiebere Okoroafor, a pastor of a new generation in Oyigbo local council of the state, who allegedly murdered three persons in his church including his Choir Mistress, Orlunma Nwagba, whom he allegedly impregnated. Operatives of the Rivers State Police Command had on December 17, 2017, arrested Okoroafor following an alarm raised by the husband of one of his alleged victims, Chigozie Ezenwa, who was killed alongside her daughter, Cristabel Ezenwa, and her friend, Nwagba. The police had after parading the suspect, who is the Founder of Altar of Solution Church, arraigned him in court and immediately commenced his prosecution before the intervention of the state government through the office of the Ministry of Justice. When the matter came up for cross-examination of witnesses, yesterday, one of the Investigative Police Officers, Inspector Dan Promise, told the court that they found the dead bodies of the victims in different locations within Eberi in Afam area of Oyigbo. Trial judge, Justice S. O. Benson, after listening to the cross-examination, adjourned till January 25 and 31, 2022, for the continuation of cross-examination. Joseph Ezenwa, husband to one of the victims, in an interview with The Guardian outside the courtroom, accused the defence counsel of delays in the matter and called for speedy justice. The Guardian learned that Precious Ordu leads the prosecution team from the Ministry of Justice. A representative of the Federation of International Female Lawyers (FIDA), Concellia Enwerenzor, who was also present during the court proceedings, prayed the court to apply due diligence in the matter. Similarly, the state government has also commenced the criminal prosecution of a police officer, Inspector Isaiah Ibene, who allegedly shot dead a young musician in 2020. When the matter came up in court, one of the friends of the late musician, Paul Reuben, who was with the victim when the incident took place, during cross-examination, told the court that the policeman was responsible for the killing of his friend. The trial judge, Justice S.O. Benson, after listening to the witness, adjourned till January 24, 31 and April 6, 2022, for the continuation of cross-examination. 