As part of Turkey’s efforts to develop a stronger relationship with Africa and Nigeria, the President of Turkey, Recep Tayap Erdogan recently visited Nigeria and invited President Muhammadu Buhari to Turkey for the Turkey African Conference in December. The city of Bodrum Turkey wants to take advantage of this special relationship with Nigeria to drive its tourism.
  
Based on this, the Mayor of the city of Bodrum, Ahmet Aras also hosted a Nigerian lead team for exploratory meetings led by Abuja based tour operator Cecile Doumbe of CMD Tours.  The team included Ambassador Ikechi Uko, a travel expert and Adebayo Ajayi, the Travel Sultan of Abay Tours.
  
According to the Mayor of Bodrum, Turkey has everything the Nigerian traveller wants. “We have amazing shopping for top quality materials. We also have wonderful destinations. The historical legends of Turkey are unparalleled for both Christians and Muslims. This is why we want Nigerians to come and enjoy our Mediterranean culture within Asia,” the Mayor said.  The exploratory team, which was invited by Skywings Istanbul, was hosted to a city tour of Istanbul, the city of two continents, visiting the European and the Asian sides of Istanbul with stops at the world famous Hagia Sophia of Constantinople.
  
At a meeting with the Bodrum Hoteliers Association, the President, Omer F. Dengiz, told them that Bodrum has a population of 130,000 citizens but receives over 1.3 million tourists every year mainly from Britain and Germany. “Bodrum has over 1000 hotels with about 150,000 rooms and more than 300,000 beds that cost between $50 and $500. There are boutique hotels and luxury collections,” he added. After facility visits and city tour of Bodrum, which included visits to the castle and the museum of Halicarnisus, a former ancient wonder of the world, the team departed for Antalya. Antalya is the town where Paul the Apostle started his missionary journey in the Bible. Stopovers at Cappadocia completed the tour. The team from Turkey is expected in Nigeria for a series of roadshows to introduce Turkey to Nigerian tour operators and professionals. A series of famtrips are also planned to Turkey in the course of the year. Team Leader Ms. Doumbe told them that Nigerians were great travellers and were looking for new destinations, adding that Turkey was perfect. She introduced the team as experts to deliver the mandate desired by the Mayor. Bodrum has been described as unique, chic, and special by tourists who troop there from April to October every year.