• PGF ex-DG decries ‘imposition’ of candidates in APC President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has wooed the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, to dump his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the All Progressives Congress (APC). A statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi, said Lawan was in Uyo on invitation by his colleague, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan, where he poured encomiums on the governor for good governance, as he publicly asked him to jump ship. The document reiterated that the duo has been friends for a while. The Yobe indigene had extended a similar invitation to Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu when he visited Aba last November. Both the Senate President and Emmanuel were among dignitaries at the thanksgiving service and commissioning of constituency projects executed by Senator Akpan at the weekend. HOWEVER, the highest decision-making organ of the APC Lagos chapter, the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), has dismissed speculations to displace Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in the 2023 general elections. GAC, which consists of party leaders and chieftains, therefore, urged citizens to disregard the report circulating on the WhatsApp platform purporting that it had decided to replace Sanwo-Olu. In a statement, yesterday by its leader, Tajudeen Olusi, the body said the process of picking a governor is clearly stated in the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “It should also be pointed out that it is not within the realm of GAC to engage in picking replacements for a governor. Importantly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not signalled the commencement of the process for the governorship election in Lagos State. IN the interim, erstwhile Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Lukman, yesterday, decried alleged imposition of candidates in the APC. In an open letter to the ruling party’s leaders titled: “Politics of Change: APC on the Brink,” said it was unfortunate that the party “is being held captive by some few leaders whose interest is only about imposing themselves as candidates for elections.”