Don tells Nigerians to search beyond APC, PDP for Buhari’s successor
A prominent chieftain of Plateau State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Jonathan Akuns, has stated that retaining the party’s Presidential slot in the North is a recipe for disintegration. He faulted leaders of Atiku Abubakar Campaign Technical Committee over their stance on zoning, saying that the arrangement between North and South is limited to political parties. Akuns, who is also the Galadima Daffo, maintained: “There is no point splitting hair in PDP for the zoning of the Presidency in 2023; it is all about an age-long political precedent incubated by the founding fathers of the nation.” PDP chieftain, Raymond Dokpesi, who led the Atiku Campaign Team to the South East recently, had informed his hosts that their best bet was to wait for 2027 to take a shot at the Presidency. Dokpesi asserted that though it was the turn of the South East to throw up a candidate for the Presidency, the zone had better wait till 2027 to enable the North complete the abridged four-year tenure of the late President Umaru Yar’Adua. But Akuns told The Guardian, yesterday, that seeking to re-invent the wheel of zoning would disintegrate PDP. HOWEVER, professor of Political Science with Bayero University, Kano (BUK), Abu Mohammed, has called on right-thinking Nigerians to search for a credible individual with mental and physical capabilities to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. The political scientist spoke while featuring on a Kaduna-based Invicta 98.9FM radio programme, ‘The Perspective’, on Tuesday. According to the don, such individual may not be within the All Progressives Congress (APC) or PDP, but Nigerians must override the few parasitic elements within the system who may want to bring any of the candidates, who have been a part of the political system since 1999, for the best hand to emerge the next President, irrespective of regional or religious background. Prof. Mohammed noted that “those showing interest, so far, are still among those in the political corner since 1999.” “We need to look at the concept in which we can talk about agenda for the incoming President, wherever he belongs or the political party he is coming from.” 