Preparations for the first World Yoruba Carnival of Arts and Culture have begun. The carnival is a festival of music, dance, drama, calisthenics, cultural processions, exciting arrays of foods and culinary delights, artistic and academic endeavour, tours, exhibitions, symposia and the total celebration of cultural and historical values and achievements of the race. According to Femi Sowoolu, a member of the media and publicity sub-committee, the carnival will bring together the largest gathering of Yoruba peoples around the world. They include North America (the U.S.A. and Canada), South and Central America (Brazil, Cuba and the Caribbean), Europe (the UK),  West Africa as well as Nigeria. He said that the support to the cause of the reinvigoration of the racial bond of the Yoruba globally has also been greatly enhanced by the unwavering commitment of all the traditional leaders, executive governors of the South Western states with whom there is constant interaction as the preparations for the celebration evolved. “The weight of this support is demonstrated in the immeasurable commitment of the Onirisha, Ooni Enitan Babatunde Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II; lku Baba Yeye, the Alafin of Oyo; Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, and Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo, Okukenu IV, the Alake of Egbaland; among other notable traditional monarchs.” Given the magnitude of the programme and the need to provide ample time to the Yoruba diaspora globally to fully mobilise for meaningful participation in this historic reunion, he noted that the celebration has been pushed forward to between April and May 2022. Meanwhile, the central planning committee is expected converge on the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta in a weeklong retreat from February 3 to 6, 2022. Members will deliberate on the comprehensive programme of the carnival. Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, is also the designated host venue of the carnival events. Members of the committee, including all sub-committee heads, as well as the carnival Chairman, Dr. Tunde Adegbola; the Coordinator General, Otunba Femmy Carrena; the Director of Carnival, Prof. Ademola Araoye and the Secretary Mr. Oluwaseun Olayiwola, are expected to be in attendance.