“Happy New Year’’ “Happy New Year my guy, 2022 has started on a good note” “Really? How?” “Well, if the exploits of the Super Eagles at the ongoing African Cup of Nations is anything to go by, it is a sign of glad tidings” “Hahaha, you have started again. What kind of superstitious belief is that? So, if they lose now, it will be bad omen?” “Please, they must lift the trophy, right now the team is a big source of joy to the populace and a mechanism for national integration” “Hahaha, I can’t but agree with you, especially for the ladies” “How do you mean?” “Nigerian singer D’banj once sang that Nigerians girls love something called ‘koboko’, he never told us what koboko meant. However, I disagree with him, Nigerian girls love the Super Eagles, no scratch that, Nigerian girls love Super Eagle Maduka Okoye. The goalkeeper for the national team has become a hot commodity like fuel during petrol scarcity. With the outpouring of love from Nigerian girls, Maduka who told an interviewer that he is single, would never lack supply of women” “Please we don’t want distractions from slay queens and slay mamas. He should keep his eye on the prize” “Maduka is single, rich and famous – a prize catch for the ladies – trust me they wouldn’t mind being ensnared” “He should just focus on the job at hand and don’t get carried away by the show of affection and adulation. I can assure you that, if Nigeria should lose, and God help him if it is due to a goalkeeping error, then he would know how petty and jealous the husbands, boyfriends, sugar daddies of his female fans/admirers can be. As they say in Nigerian social media lingo ‘they will drag him like tiger generator’ on the vicious streets of twitter” “Hahaha, no self-respecting sugar daddy will get involved in a petty squabble” “Talking about sugar daddy, did you watch Child Daddy 2 on Netflix?” “Please can we stick to the ongoing African Cup of Nations. Events have overtaken that matter and it is no longer on the front burner of discourse” “Aha, I forgot you admire aunty …” “My friend that is beside the point, please stick to the conversation on the nations cup. Or you want to tell your missus about that fine boy Maduka” “You are a very useless man; I need to revisit the basis of our friendship. On a serious note, many ladies are now watching the Super Eagles matches now” “That is good, football has always been a unifying factor in the country. Couples can bond watching the Eagles’’ “Please I don’t see how Maduka will unite couples, I hope he doesn’t cause palaver in many homes with the way women are crushing on him” “Don’t worry, your sweet gentle missus is not his spec’, Maduka in an interview said he likes toxic women” “Hahaha, I like the boy. He must have a good sense of humour” “I hope he is joking; I don’t think he has ever had problems with a woman” “No, he doesn’t have ‘women’ problem, many women are crushing on him. Presently, he is the most eligible man in Nigeria”. 