The Lagos State government, yesterday, said it will not tolerate any attempt by residents to humiliate or attack any traffic officer, maintaining that anyone who indulges in such activities should desist or be ready to face the law. In his keynote address at the maiden Lagos Traffic Radio 96.1FM and the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), traffic engagement forum, with the theme: ‘Repositioning of Traffic Information Agencies for Better Performance’, Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, stated stating that the state government would continue to prosecute any engaging in the primitive act, noting that it is now common to find motorists throwing verbal assaults at government on what they perceive as an attempt to generate revenue through enforcing transport sector reform law of 2018. Omotoso, however, added that some traffic officers are applying the law harshly, forgetting their statutory mandate of helping to manage traffic. On the collaboration between the two government agencies aimed at improving traffic and resolving gridlock, the commissioner said: “This for me, is a potent avenue for capacity building for the two prime agencies. This is, indeed, very significant because the engagement provides a potent platform for the two organisations to synergize, strategise and build on your hitherto work relationship, which has delivered laudable impact in the management of traffic challenges. “I must state here that the establishment of both agencies is a strategic intervention for traffic decongestion. The birth of LASTMA in the year 2000 has helped in managing the chaotic traffic that characterised Lagos in the 1970s to 2000.” He further stressed that since LASTMA’s advent on the transportation scene, traffic management had gone a notch higher, reducing build-ups, which used to stretch several miles in the metropolis. Omotoso reiterated that Lagos Traffic Radio is a child of necessity, noting that its flamboyant entry into the transport sector almost 10 years ago, was borne out of the need to provide the much-needed information that will help commuters plan their journeys in a bid to improve travel time across the city. THE Commissioner of Transportation, Frederic Oladehinde, described the role of both agencies as life-saving, not only to residents of the state but also motorists plying the various roads and highways across the metropolis. Represented by the Director of Transportation in the Ministry, Azeez Toriola, the commissioner said the present administration will not rest on its oars until road users enjoy free flow of traffic movement and this is evident in the various investments in transport infrastructure in the State. On his part, the Head of Service (HoS), in the Lagos State Government, Hakeem Muri-Okunola, represented by Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Kamar the commended efforts of all stakeholders.