Oyo Kajola Group (OKG) has told the Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Adeolu Akande, not to politick with the death of the Olubadan on the ongoing discussion over the emergence of a successor. Media Coordinator of the OKG, Adebayo Ayandele, stated, yesterday, that Akande’s advice that Governor Seyi Makinde “should return home and take charge” of the Olubadan matter was self-serving. Such a statement, according to OKG, amounts to crass display of ignorance over the issue. Ayandele pointed out that Akande’s advice to Makinde, who is on a brief visit to his family in the United States of America, to “come home and take charge” was self-serving and misguided. The group, which stated that all processes meant to be followed regarding the emergence of a new Olubadan were being followed despite the governor’s absence, added that the Ministry of Justice and that of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters are meant to “take charge” at this period, not the governor. Describing the call as strange and needless, especially coming from a former Chief of Staff to the Governor, the group added that the processes were all unfolding well within the 21-day window for the emergence of a new monarch. It equally maintained that Akande’s attempt to blackmail the governor, following the demise of the Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, is unfounded, as the governor had been duly represented at every point necessary since the Kabiyesi passed on. OKG stated: “In another round of his attention-seeking games ahead of his ill-fated governorship ambition, Prof. Akande went on another display of crass ignorance about governance procedures on Thursday by advising Governor Makinde to ‘return to Nigeria and take charge’ of processes regarding the emergence of a new Olubadan. “This advice and the subsequent attempt to portray the governor as lacking empathy are ill-advised, misguided and uncalled for, since the governor’s role in the emergence of a new Olubadan is well streamlined.” 