The House of Representatives, yesterday, unveiled plans to investigate alleged involvement of Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami and Inspector General of Police  (IGP), Usman Baba Alkali in the Police invasion of Magodo GRA Phase 2 in Lagos. While debating on the motion of urgent public importance co-sponsored by Hon. Ademorin Kuye and Hon. Rotimi Agunsoye, the lawmakers expressed concerns over the attempt to destabilise the peace of Lagos State, scuttle the ongoing settlement process and enforce illegality through Malami and Alkali’s directive. In his lead debate, Kuye observed that residents of  Magodo GRA Phase 2 in Shangisha, Lagos woke up on the morning of December 5, 2020 to the sight of hundreds of arm wedging thugs, stern-looking and fully armed policemen and members of the Shangisha Landlords Association purportedly to execute a judgment. “The House is aware that the judgment that was supposedly being enforced was delivered in 2012 by the Supreme Court in Military Governors of Lagos State & Ors Vs Adebayo Adeyiga & Ors in Appeal No SC/112/2002 wherein the Apex Court affirmed the judgment of the Court of Appeal and the High Court delivered on December 31, 1993 in suit marked: ID/795/88. He also explained that the House was aware that the declaratory judgment of the Supreme Court only recognised the judgment creditors as being entitled to the allocation and reallocation of 549 plots of land in Shangisha and not the possession of any land. “The House is worried that the execution being presently executed through the office of the AGF with the connivance of the IGP is illegal as only the Lagos State Deputy Sheriff can execute same and not thugs aided by Policemen. “It is even more concerned that the highhandedness and reckless show of force on December 5, 2021 and January 4, 2022 in Magodo by Adeyiga and his cohorts in utter disregard to Order 8, Rule 17 of the Supreme Court Rules 2014 and Section 37 of the Enforcement of Judgment and Order Part III of the Sherriff and Civil Process Act, LFN 2004 can lead to loss of lives and properties and ultimately the breakdown of law and order,” among others, it added. In this regard, the House mandated its joint committees on Justice, Public Petitions and Police to investigate the involvement of Malami and Alkali in alleged attempt to destabilise the peace of Lagos State, scuttle ongoing settlement process and enforce illegality. 