• Military kills 950 terrorists, says DHQ
• NRC gets security patrol vehicles for Abuja/Kaduna railway Gunmen have kidnapped about six children of former Secretary to Taraba State Government, Gebon Kataps, alongside their police escort and driver. The state’s police command confirmed the report, but could not ascertain the exact number of the victims. Admitting that hoodlums operated in Jamtari village, Gashaka Local Council of the state, the former SSG’s children, according to the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Usman Abdullahi, were abducted during the raid. While a villager was reportedly killed during the incident, a police officer serving in Jamtari, he added, was also abducted, and another escorting the victims sustained injuries. The PPRO said the command would not rest on its oars till the victims are rescued and the gunmen apprehended. Also confirming the incident, Paul Dogoh, the Council Chairman of Gashaka said he was aware that kidnappers operated in his council on Wednesday afternoon. Speaking with The Guardian on the telephone, Kataps said six of his family members, comprising his children, niece and driver, were abducted. MEANWHILE, troops of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) have eliminated 950 Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East between May 20, 2021, and January 6, 2022, according to the Defence Headquarters (DHQ). The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko made this known while reviewing the
progress of the operations, yesterday, in Abuja. Onyeuko said the troops eliminated several high profile commanders and Amirs (leaders) of the terrorist groups during the period. About 24,059 terrorists and their families, comprising 5,326 adult males, 7,550 adult females and 11,183 children have so far surrendered to the troops in the region, he added. According to him, all surrendered elements have been properly profiled and handed over to appropriate authorities for necessary action. Onyeuko further revealed that 79 terrorists were arrested and 113 kidnapped civilians rescued by the troops within the period. FOLLOWING the attack by bandits on a train last year, the Federal Ministry of Transportation has handed over six patrol vehicles to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to aid security officers in the monitoring and patrol of the Abuja/Kaduna railway corridor. Permanent secretary in the ministry, Magdalene Ajani, while handing over the equipment to NRC management, yesterday, at the Idu rail station, said with the increasing insecurity in the country, the ministry decided to procure the vehicles to support NRC and the police on the route for effective policing. 