Three days, spanning the months of January and February, hold the key to the onset of political activities in the pre-general election year of 2022. They include January 11, February 5 and 21 respectively.
   
Curiously, three political parties, namely All Progressives Congress (APC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are involved. On February 21, 2019 Presidential candidate of major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and fourth republic Vice President, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, would know his fate regarding his eligibility to stand for election for the position of President of Nigeria. The court is expected to pronounce on the citizenship disputation matter over Atiku’s nationality, which preceded the 2019 poll.
         
Then baring any last minute changes, the much expected and oft postponed national convention of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) would hold on February 5. What happens or does not on this important date would determine how far the governing APC would fare in tackling its internal affairs as well as affect the polity in many ways.  Njoku Or Oye?
The matter at Federal High Court Abuja before Justice A. R. Mohammed would determine who, between Ozonkpu Victor Oye and Chief Edozie Njoku should be recognized by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the substantive national chairman of APGA.
    
Njoku, Hamman Buba Ghide and Adamu Danjuma Musa approached the court seeking an order of mandamus to compel INEC to recognise the party’s executive elected at the Owerri National Convention of APGA.
   
The plaintiffs also prayed the court to nullify the May 14, 2019 National Executive Committee meeting, which took far reaching decisions, especially bordering on the national convention in Awka that purportedly re-elected Oye as APGA national chairman.
  
Following the disagreements over the sudden change of venue for the 2019 national convention from Owerri to Awka, some members of the APGA Board of Trustees approached the Delta State High Court, which nullified the National Convention held in Awka. Apart from sacking Oye and the party’s executives selected at the Awka convention on May 31, 2019, the court also cancelled the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held at the Governor’s Lodge, Awka, Anambra State two weeks to the convention.
   
It could be recalled that the same NEC meeting okayed the party’s congresses scheduled for May 19, 21 and 23, 2019, culminating in a National Convention in Awka on May 31, 2019.  The Appeal Court in its ruling on the matter declared: “Having examined the reliefs sought in the substantive suit…I am of the opinion that the issue as to whether the Appellant authorised the suit or whether the 1st -3rd Respondents’ (Njoku’s faction) counsel that any decision on the application at the interlocutory stage would have a bearing on the substantive matter…
   
“The decision of the trial court in this regard, is in line with the legion of judicial authorities of this court and that of the Apex Court that a court hearing the merits of a substantive case at an interlocutory stage is not permitted under our legal system…  APC’s ‘Febuhari’ Convention
To be or not. That is the other connotation of February 5 in the 2022 diary entry for the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). The fact that President Muhammadu Buhari, who was the rallying point of the merger processes that produced APC has become a passive player in the party is contributing to the suspense in the party.
   
Former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who ordinarily would have stepped into the leadership seat to drive the party’s progress to the future became embattled with the establishment of the Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC).
    
The immediate past elected National Working Committee (NWC), which emerged from the party’s second national convention in 2018, got booted out following misunderstanding between the former national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his home state governor, Godwin Nosa Obaseki.
  
But, confusion and mutual suspicion trailed the dismantling of the Oshiomhole-led NWC, even as some stakeholders held that the action of the National Executive Committee (NEC) was targeted at Tinubu. Others claimed that apart from the loyalty of the NWC to Tinubu, the national chairman, Oshiomhole, was plotting to appropriate the party’s Presidential ticket to himself and contest the 2023 poll.
  
However, no sooner was the Buni CECPC put together than recriminations set in as former members of the NWC began to query the rationale for sacking an elected NWC and replacing it with an illegal contraption called caretaker committee.  Atiku’s Eligibility Suit
PART of the controversies over the suit challenging Atiku’s citizenship status and eligibility to stand for election into the office of Nigeria’s President is whether it is a pre-election matter or not.
 
Prior to the 2019 general elections, the incorporated trustees of a civil society group, Egalitarian Mission for Africa (EMA), sued the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar alongside Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), tIndependent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF).
   
In the suit No FHC/ABJ/CS/177/2019, EMA contended that Atiku was not eligible to contest for Presidency on the grounds that he was not a citizen of Nigeria by birth, stressing that the part of Adamawa State from where Atiku hails was still part of the Northern Cameroon as of the time of his birth.
  
Consequently, EMA urged the court to hold, among others, that in view of sections 25(1), (2) and 131(a) of the constitution and the circumstances surrounding the former Vice President’s birth, he cannot contest for the office of Nigeria’s President.
 
Before the court adjourned ruling to February 21, 2022, counsel to the plaintiff, Mr Akinola Oladimeji, disagreed with counsel to the defendants, Eyitayo Jegede SAN on the claim that the suit was a pre-election one. He asserted: “For the purposes of clarity, a pre-election matter is filed by an aspirant in an election. The plaintiff is not an aspirant, it is only seeking an interpretation into the questions raised,”
Mr Oladimeji argued that even though Mr Atiku was said to have been born in Nigeria, he was not a Nigerian citizen, arguing that the fact that the mistake had been made in the past does not warrant that it should continue. 