The Country Manager, APM Terminals Apapa, Klaus Laursen, has said the company would continue to invest in people, complete the ongoing facility upgrade, strengthen its capability and raise its level of engagement with stakeholders as it looks forward to transforming its asset into a world-class facility. Speaking in Lagos while reviewing the company’s last year performance, Laursen said APM Terminals has seen a remarkable transformation in the past few years, leading to a strong ambition to become a world-class terminal operator. He said the terminal operator has created jobs and provided access to foods, medicine and other essentials to improve the standard of living of people. “Here in APM Terminals Apapa, it is not just about moving boxes around. We are a heartbeat for the Nigerian local society; we create value for our customers and we do our best to ensure that our people are here because they want to be here,” he added. According to Laursen, the terminal, which is one of the largest in West Africa, is in a phase of transformation even as it aims to create an engaging work environment for all stakeholders. On his part, the Terminal Manager, Steen Knudsen said, more than ever, global trade needs efficient port operations and integrated solutions. “We started a new and exciting journey in Apapa last year – a significant amount of new equipment was deployed; we are improving our facilities and we have kicked off a significant training plan for all employees across functions and levels. This journey is our transformation to international standards,” he said. Knudsen stated that it is important that people embrace the transformation and accept that it is a multi-year journey, which is closely linked to APMT values as a company and its primary objective to create value for the Nigerian economy. Knudsen recalled that the ongoing implementation of APM Terminals global initiatives provides a strong foundation to deliver consistent and repeatable standard processes to help drive the APM Terminals strategy of becoming a world-class terminal operator, enhance the seamless flow of operations and increase efficiency. “We have been putting a significant focus on employee engagement, looking into different aspects of well-being of our workforce at individual, team and community levels. The focus has been on encouragement of feedback culture development, team bonding, investment into people’s personal and professional development and grooming our leadership capabilities,” Knudsen said.