A Yoruba self-determination group, Ilana Omo O’odua Worldwide, has expressed support for Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s call for the Yoruba to boycott cow meat and start using chicken and native goats for their ceremonies. In a statement issued by the group’s Deputy to Alana-in-Council, Prof. Wale Adeniran, yesterday, the group urged Yoruba people to start developing grow-what-you-consume before a sovereign Yoruba Nation becomes reality. The statement, made available to The Guardian by the Group’s Communications Secretary, Maxwell Adeleye, explained that the group, led by a renowned historian and scholar, Prof. Banji Akintoye, agreed with “Akeredolu that by consistently patronising cows, N2.5 billion goes out of the South West economy daily to develop the North, which does not make sense.” It appealed to all Yoruba people to stop patronising cow meat and embrace chicken and goat meat in the interest of their personal health and the economy of the region. “We commend Akeredolu over the statement credited to him in this regard, and hereby support his call. We commend the governor for this bold, patriotic and visionary statement and urge our people to heed the advice,” the statement reads. The Ilana Omo O’odua added that Yoruba people should, in addition to chicken, resort to native goats, sheep, fish, snails, rabbits, ducks, turkey and grass cutter for ceremonies and daily consumption. “There are now modern methods for the production of these sources of protein and we urge governments of the South West states to support the idea through trainings, workshops and provision of soft loans. “Switching to these other sources of protein will not only prevent capital flight, but also create jobs for the teeming population of educated youths, who will be engaged in the production and processing of these alternative sources of protein. “Furthermore, medical experts and nutritionists advise against the consumption of beef (red meat), because is universally recognised as injurious to human health. “Consequently, they advise that people should consume the other types of meat, which are known as lean meat and acknowledged to be more beneficial to human health,” the statement added. The group charged Yoruba people at home and in the Diaspora to appreciate Akeredolu for his thoughtfulness, patriotism and message of hope. 