Bayern Munich captain Manuel Neuer hailed Robert Lewandowski as a scoring “machine” after the Poland striker claimed his 300th Bundesliga goal with a hat-trick as the German league leaders thrashed Cologne 4-0 on Saturday. The reigning champions restored their six-point advantage after Borussia Dortmund had cut the gap with a 5-1 thumping of Freiburg on Friday. Visitor’s Bayern, almost back to full strength after nine players missed last weekend’s home loss to Borussia Moenchengladbach following positive Covid tests, raced into a 2-0 lead in Cologne with goals by Lewandowski and Corentin Tolisso. “After the defeat against Moenchengladbach, it was important for us to get our first points this year,” Neuer told Sky. Bayern Munich’s Polish forward Robert Lewandowski vies for the ball with Cologne’s German defender Luca Kilian (L) during the German first division Bundesliga football match FC Cologne vs Bayern Munich in Cologne, western Germany, on January 15, 2022. (Photo by Ina Fassbender / AFP)  Only Bayern and West Germany legend Gerd Mueller, who died last year, scored more Bundesliga goals with 365. “We are happy and grateful to have Robert – he is a machine upfront,” added Neuer. Lewandowski opened the scoring with some slick finishing before Tolisso doubled Bayern’s lead by thumping his shot into the top corner from 16 metres out. Cologne looked to have clawed a goal back through Mark Uth, but the VAR spotted he was offside. Bayern Munich’s Polish forward Robert Lewandowski (R) scores the opening goal during the German first division Bundesliga football match FC Cologne vs Bayern Munich in Cologne, western Germany, on January 15, 2022. (Photo by Ina Fassbender / AFP)  Sane’s pass put Lewandowski in behind the defence for his second goal. Eight minutes later, Sane again danced through Cologne’s midfield before putting Lewandowski into position to tuck away his 23rd league goal this season. Lewandowski has scored in 15 of Bayern’s 19 league games. He is on course to break his own record of 41 Bundesliga goals in a single season, which he set last May. Union Berlin went forth, and into the Champions League places, with a 2-1 home win over third-placed Hoffenheim as Andreas Voglsammer and Grischa Proemel scored for the hosts after an own goal by team-mate Timo Baumgartl. RB Leipzig continued their climb, rising to seventh with a 2-0 win at VfB Stuttgart as Portuguese striker Andre Silva bagged his fifth goal in as many league games. Silva, who also scored a brace in last weekend’s home win over Mainz, converted an early penalty after a handball by Stuttgart defender Konstantinos Mavropanos. Leipzig doubled their tally with a superb counter-attack from their own box when Benjamin Henrichs put Christopher Nkunku away and the French winger fired home with 20 minutes left. Wolfsburg ended their run of six straight league defeats with a goalless draw at home to Hertha Berlin, but both clubs remain just above the bottom three.