Staff Demand Smith’s Removal For Alleged Ineptitude
A Commissioner in the Police Service Commission (PSC) has carpeted the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Alkali Baba for allegedly hijacking the recruitment and promotion duties of the commission, rendering its staff jobless. The Commissioner, who prefers anonymity, was reacting to the protest by staff of the Commission. He noted that the board would convene on Monday to address issues raised by the civil servants who demanded the immediate sack of its chairman, Musiliu Smith. He said police management violated the gentleman agreement reached with them to jointly conduct recruitment exercise and went ahead to solely employ policemen. He noted that the court had given them judgment against the police as the only body charged with recruiting and promoting police officers and men. “The IGP and his team have gone against the gentleman agreement we had we them. The police and IGP are giving Nigeria impression that they are carrying out the present recruitment in conjunction with PSC, but it is not true. They advertised for the job on their website rather than the PSC website. “The IGP is carrying out discipline, recruitment and promotions, which are the core mandate of the commission. They don’t want the commission to carry out its constitutional mandate. The former IGP took us to court and court gave judgment in our favour. “We have cooperated with them, but they have not been fair to us. The staff have rights to protest because police has taken over their jobs and they are not happy about it. The IGP have to restore the mandate of the commission. Our powers are enshrined in the constitution and not Act. The staff are aggrieved that their duties have been taken from them without the board taking any action,” he said. Activities at the Police Service Commission (PSC) were grounded on Thursday at the federal secretariat Abuja after staff of the commission protested alleged corruption and ineptitude since the former Inspector General of Police (Rtd.) Musliu Smith took over as chairman. The protesters reportedly locked out the Permanent Secretary, Williams Alo and other Commissioners and Directors, chanting anti-Musliu Smith song. Checks revealed that the staff protested against lopsidedness in the ongoing recruitment of 10,000 policemen, stagnated promotion and nepotism, and usurping of the commissions’ powers by the Inspector General of Police, among other things. Some of the protesters who spoke on condition of anonymity blamed the present government for appointing Alhaji Smith as chairman of the Commission, having retired long ago as an Inspector General of Police. They added, “Since Smith came in as chairman, the only legacy to his credit is nepotism and lopsided promotion. Staff welfare is zero and that was what happened in 2001 when he was IGP, the rank and file went on strike for the first time. It is the same man that this administration sees qualified to head the PSC. He must go!” Reacting to the protest in a statement, PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani said: “The attention of the management of the Police Service Commission has been drawn to several news publications on the above subject matter. “The Commission regrets that the issues raised in the publications by its staff, which were already receiving management attention, had to degenerate to a level where staff forcefully locked up government offices and chased away staff on legitimate duties. “The staff raised several issues but primarily the alleged hand over of the constitutional responsibility of the Commission to recruit Police Officers to the Inspector General of Police; the delay in the conclusion of the 2021 staff promotion and training of staff were the major highlights.” “It is necessary to state unequivocally that the recruitment of Police Officers from the rank of Constables to Cadet Inspectors and Cadet ASPs are and remains the constitutional responsibility of the Commission and this was also affirmed not long ago by a judgment of the Federal Court of Appeal. The management of the Commission has no intention to abdicate this constitutional responsibility. “It should be noteworthy that the Management had few weeks ago addressed the staff on this matter and had also followed up with contact with the Inspector General of Police to explain issues arising from the preparation for the conduct of the 2021 Recruitment process. “Earlier favourable judgment to the Inspector General of Police by the Federal High Court, Abuja, was used for the take over of all Police recruitments, including that of Police Academy. At no time did management willingly surrender the Commission’s mandate to the Nigeria Police Force. This, it will never contemplate.” It appealed to staff to reconsider their combative approach and join hands with the management of the Commission to realise earliest resolutions of the matter according to the constitution and current judgment of the Court of Appeal. 