The Federal Government has approved new guidelines for the administration of expatriate quota in Nigeria, according to a public notice, yesterday, by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. There have been complaints about the abuse of expatriate quota by some companies and organisations in the country. In a statement by the Director of Press in the Ministry of Interior, Blessing Lere-Adams, all stakeholders are to visit the ministry’s website for more information on the current guidelines. The notice also disclosed that approval had been granted to all companies and organisations, which had been granted Expatriate Quota Positions (EQPs) on Permanent Until Reviewed (PUR) status. The circular equally explained that the exercise would assist the ministry to ascertain the length of time each PUR instrument had been held, the extent utilisation by respective organisations, adding that it will facilitate the assessment of the continued eligibility of holders while repositioning the management of the instrument for greater efficiency and effectiveness. It added that all companies and organisations that have been granted PUR facilities should submit clear copies of their letters of approval from January 24 to February 28, 2022. Also, it is now mandatory that all users of services provided by the Citizenship and Business Department of the ministry are to submit monthly returns on the utilisation of all approved expatriate quota positions issued to their respective organisations online. In another public notice by the Permanent Secretary and Principal Registrar of Marriage in Nigeria, Dr. Shuaib Belgore, the government announced its plans to commence the inspection of organisations for the granting of additional slots of expatriate quota facilities, renewal of expatriate quota positions, as well as inspection of places of worship for the issuance of licences to conduct statutory marriages and renewal of existing marriages. According to him, “this is pursuant to the Second Schedule of the Marriage Act, Cap 6, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and the approved Legal Notices vide Federal Government Official Gazette Nos. 55, 56, 59, 60, 61 & 62, Volume 108 of 2021.” The notice also stated that these inspection exercises and services attract payment of fees that are mandatory for organisations and public places of worship that apply for such services.