Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has called on Nigerians to do everything within their powers to prevent war and continue to live in peace with their neighbours. Speaking yesterday at the year 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Juma’at Service, Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, said: “We should do everything to prevent war. Some people now have voluntarily said they will protect all of us with the help of Allah to defend this country. We must appreciate them. We must appreciate them. So we appreciate you (military).” Sanwo-Olu added that many Nigerians take delight in critising the Nigerian Army and accusing them of not doing enough. “Is it easy? So why do we always elevate the bad things about our country? How do we justify the death of those people that fought for this country to remain? So, in memory of the people that are even dead, let us even be nice to our country,” he said. He prayed that Almighty Allah would be with the souls of those that have departed, adding: “For those that are living, it is our responsibility to do everything that we can do to appreciate their efforts.” Similarly, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has also urged Nigerians to always remember the families of the fallen heroes and heroines. Makinde, who stated this at the special Juma’at Service to commemorate the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, held at the Oja’ba Central Mosque, Ibadan, yesterday, said that those left behind by the fallen heroes needed help to meet some of their basic needs. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said the governor was represented at the event by the Deputy Chief of Staff in his office, Abdulmojeed Mogbonjubola. The statement noted that the governor urged Nigerians to allow peace to reign in the country, adding that the sacrifice made by the fallen heroes was worth celebrating. He said: “Armed Forces Remembrance Day must be a constant reminder of the great sacrifices that our ex-servicemen and gallant fallen heroes made to secure our nation. For us in Oyo State, we will continually place priority on the welfare of the families of fallen heroes.” 