Star forward Musa Barrow scored on 71 minutes to take debutants Gambia, the lowest-ranked team at the Africa Cup of Nations, into the quarter-finals on Monday with a 1-0 victory over Guinea in Bafoussam. The west African Scorpions now face hosts Cameroon or giant-killers Comoros in a quarter-final in Douala on Saturday. Barrow scored with a close-range shot to end the stalemate in a cagey last-16 affair at the Stade Kouekong that was dominated by the rival defences. (Top L-R) Gambia’s midfielder Ebrima Sohna, defender Omar Colley, defender Noah Sonko Sundberg, defender James Gomez, defender Mohammed Mbye, (bottom L-R) midfielder Musa Barrow, midfielder Modou Barrow, midfielder Yusupha Bobb,  goalkeeper Baboucarr Gaye, defender Saidy Janko and defender Pa Modou Jagne pose prior to the   Group F Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) 2021 football match between Gambia and Tunisia at Limbe Omnisport Stadium in Limbe on January 20, 2022. (Photo by Issouf SANOGO / AFP)  Gambia was forced to change both full-backs shortly before the kick-off when Ibou Touray and Saidy Janko were ruled out by food poisoning. Dawda Ngum and veteran Pa Modou Jagne were promoted to the starting line-up ahead of the biggest match in the history of Gambian football. Gambia’s midfielder Musa Barrow (C) celebrates scoring his team’s first goal during the Africa Cup of Nations (CAN) 2021 round of 16 football match between Guinea and Gambia at Stade de Kouekong in Bafoussam on January 24, 2022. (Photo by Pius Utomi EKPEI / AFP)  There was a huge gap in the experience of the two coaches with Tom Saintfiet of Gambia in charge of his 10th national team while Kaba Diawara of Guinea was recently appointed a head coach for the first time. After a cautious start, Gambia was first to threaten when Musa Barrow stung the fingers of Guinea goalkeeper Aly Keita with a long-range shot that was parried to safety. Mohamed Bayo had two chances to put Guinea ahead after 38 minutes, but his attempts to score were blocked by defender James Gomez and then goalkeeper Baboucarr Gaye. In added time at the end of the opening half Ebrima Darboe unleashed a cross-cum-shot that flew across the goalmouth and out of play. Although Guinea is ranked 69 places higher than Gambia in the world, there was nothing to choose between the sides after the opening half in the western Cameroon highlands. The tempo increased as the second half progressed but defences remained dominant with goalkeepers Keita and Gaye rarely troubled. Gambia went ahead when Musa Barrow latched on to a defence-splitting Yusupha Bobb pass, held off a Guinean and struck a left-foot shot past Keita. Guinea thought they had equalised after 77 minutes when Conte pushed a cross into the net at the back post, but joy turned to frustration as his effort was ruled offside. Gambia were pegged back in the closing minutes after substitute Njie was sent off for a second yellow card and Guinea hit the woodwork twice in added time and had a penalty appeal rejected. 