Members of the Super Eagles Supporters Club, on Tuesday, lamented the early exit of Ghana’s Black Stars from the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroun.
 
The Ghanaians, who are four times African champions, crashed out in the group stage, following a 2-3 defeat to Comoros in their last group match on Tuesday night in Garoau. After losing 1-0 to Morocco in their first match and drawing with Gabon, Ghana and Comoros travelled from Yaounde to Garoua for the last match.
 
On arrival in Garoua, members of Ghana Football Supporters Club wrote to the Super Eagles Supporters Club to help them cheer the Black Stars to victory in the match against Comoros.  The Super Eagles Supporters Club, led by Vincent Okumagba, has branches in many countries around the world, including Ghana.
 
Olutayo explained that over 50 of their members, dressed in their Aiteo jersey, arrived at the Roumde Adjia Stadium on time for the game.
 
“Ghana conceded an early goal, and we increased our drum beats, with our members giving the players motivational songs. We actually wanted them to qualify so that we could have enough West African teams in the knockout stage. The captain, Andre Ayew, was given a red card, and before we knew it, Ghana was down 0-2.
 
“At that point, some of the supporters from Ghana became weak. Some of them even dropped their drums, but as usual, we (Super Eagles Supporters Club) don’t give up so easily. We increased our drumming, and Ghana pulled one goal back. We continued cheering them, and they (Black Stars) equalised. Other fans in the stadium shifted their support to the 10-man Ghanaian team, and we were looking forward to seeing their goal. How Ghana players went to sleep, and allowed Comoros to score a winning goal was a big shock to us. We are really disappointed,” Olutayo stated.  They are making a debut at the Africa Cup of Nations and the 3-2 win over Ghana is a pleasant one for them, although it may not be enough for them to advance into the round of 16. Ghana’s problem began in their first two matches, where they conceded late goals against Morocco and Gabon. The excuse by Ghana’s coach, Milvan Rajevac, that he is only interested in qualifying the Black Stars for Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup has been described as an alibi of a defeated man.