Football-loving Nigerians are worried by the attitude of some Super Eagles players who are yet to join the team’s camp in Abuja less than four days to the kick-off of the African Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The tournament begins on Sunday, January 9, and coach Austin Eguavoen is yet to get a full house in Eagles’ camp. The team is expected to depart for Garoau tomorrow (Wednesday). To some Nigerians, such an attitude is capable of derailing Nigeria’s success at the AFCON. Chidera Ejuke (CSKA Moscow, Russia) at the Eagles training camp. Photo/facebook/ngsupereagles/  Musa was said to have watched NPFL fixture between Kano Pillars and Enyimba at the weekend, while Eguavoen and a few Super Eagles players were in Abuja. Also, Leicester duo of Ndidi and Iheanacho had their weekend EPL match postponed, but they are yet to hit the Eagles’ camp in Abuja. “The indiscipline noticed during Gernot Rohr’s reign is still raising its very ugly head,” one sports analyst pointed out yesterday. “Players’ commitment should be evaluated before being invited to National Team,” he added. The Guardian, however, learnt yesterday evening that Ahmed Musa has finally hit the Eagles’ camp in Abuja to bring the number of players to 14 out of the 28 coach Eguavoen invited for the tournament. Those in the team’s camp include Zaidu Sanusi (FC Porto, Portugal), Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France), Francis Uzoho (AC Omonia, Cyprus), Henry Onyekuru (Olympiacos, Greece), Peter Olayinka (Slavia Praha, Czech Republic), Chidozie Awaziem (Alayanspor, Turkey), Chidera Ejuke (CSKA Moscow, Russia) and goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa). Others are Sadiq Umar (UD Almeria, Spain), Olisa Ndah (Orlando Pirates, South Africa), John Noble (Enyimba FC) and Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin, Germany). The Super Eagles had their first training on Monday under Eguavoen, Joseph Yobo and Paul Agbogun at the refurbished pitch of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Meanwhile, the team’s Media Officer, Babafemi Raji, says more players are being expected today and tomorrow. “We will have a full team on Tuesday evening before departing Wednesday for the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon.” 