Senegal will take on Equatorial Guinea in today’s second fixture of the quarterfinals in the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), fixed for the Stade Omnisport Ahmadou Ahidjo in Yaounde, Cameroun. The Senegalese got to this stage of the tournament after they struggled to beat Cape Verde 2-0 in the round of 16 on Tuesday. Senegal forward, Bamba Dieng, is slowly establishing himself as one of the Senegalese side’s key attackers and he could fire Senegal to the semi-finals. Dieng, who is on the book of French giants Olympique Marseille, scored the Lions of Teranga’s second goal in their win over Cape Verde. Their opponents, Equatorial Guinea advanced to the quarter-finals following their 6-5 win over Mali on penalties in their Round of 16 game, which took place on Wednesday. Equatorial Guinea midfielder, Pablo Ganet, has been one of the most consistent players in this National Thunder side in Cameroun. Spain-based midfield maestro Ganet was named Man of the Match after the clash with Mali and would be keen to inspire his nation to a win over Senegal. Senegal claimed a 1-0 win over Equatorial Guinea in the 2019 AFCON qualifier, which was played at the Estadio de Bata in Bata. Meanwhile, the Senegal technical bench is still monitoring captain, Sadio Mane’s recovery ahead of today’s AFCON 2021 quarterfinal date against Equatorial Guinea in Yaoundé. Mane was taken off in the 70th minute of Senegal’s 2-0 victory over Cape Verde of their last 16 meeting on Tuesday with a suspected concussion after earlier colliding with opposition goalkeeper, Vozniha, who was sent-off in the 56th minute following a second booking for dangerous play. Senegal national team technical director, Mayacine Mar, told Sud Quotiden that the bench was observing both Mane and Bamba Dieng, who sustained a knock in training. “Bamba had a little knock but it’s not bad. The doctors preferred to keep him in treatment. Sadio too, but he is doing very well. He feels no pain. He will be operational for the quarterfinals. Maybe tomorrow he will resume training,” Mar said. Mane is Senegal’s leading scorer at AFCON 2021 on two goals after scoring his second of the tournament with Senegal’s first goal in the victory over Cape Verde. Senegal are chasing a second successive AFCON final appearance after finishing second in 2019. 