Truckers under the aegis of the Committee of Maritime Truck Unions and Associations (COMTUA) have kicked against the introduction of the electronic call up system at the Kirikiri Lighter Terminal (KLT), describing it as an illegal collection and an act of extortion. Operators of the electronic call up system, Messrs Truck Transit Park (TTP) had in a circular obtained by The Guardian, announced the introduction of e-call up system at KLT from yesterday, January 17, 2022, stating that all port-related activities within the terminals in KLT will be carried out via the e-call up system only. In the circular, TTP had called on transporters, terminal operators, agents and other stakeholders, who carry out trucking activities in the KLT environment to register and book their entry on Eto if they are yet to do so as it is applicable for all port gates. Reacting, the President of COMTUA, Adeyinka Aroyewun, in a letter sent to the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello Koko, and copied to the Executive, Secretary of NigerianShippers Council (NSC), Emmanuel Jime, and Assistant Inspector General of Police Onikan Zone 2, Adeleke Adeyinka, said truck owners reject the payment for the electronic call up system, describing the collection as illegal and absurd. In a letter, the union, said: “Our attention has been drawn to the publication of TTP on various media notifying us of eto payments on Kirikiri route and the expiration duration of 30 days on all eto call up bookings: Revalidation of timeline and commencement of e-call up operations in KLT. This is alien to us as the illegal collections on the same route are still an issue before the police. “NPA management denied involvement in this collection in our meeting at the headquarters sometimes in July. To turn around to give lgitimacy to the collections is absurd. We reject this policy in its entirety and we advise you to use your good offices to avert the crisis that may ensue from this. “We shall no longer condone this act of extortion as this may lead to provocation. Our members have endured more than enough. We hope you will heed to this sincere advice.” 