Download logo Infobip (Infobip.com), a global cloud communication company for businesses and a leader in omnichannel customer engagement, has been awarded the Top Employer certification for 2022 by the Top Employer Institution, which recognises excellence in people practices.  The organisation received recognition for its Human Resources (HR) policies, practices and procedures across its operation in four African countries, namely South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya and Morocco.  As part of the certification, Infobip received a Red Seal for being certified on a country level in the four different countries, as well as a Blue Seal for being certified across the African region.  Domenico Devescovi, VP General Manager Africa at Infobip, says the Top Employer certification positions the company as a leader in people strategies and practices and is beneficial for Infobip’s Initial Public Offering (IPO) readiness journey that it has embarked on.  Adding significant value  “Being recognised as a Top Employer will also add significant value to our talent sourcing and retention capabilities, allowing us to build stronger teams and to strengthen our engagement in Africa,” says Devescovi.  “Additionally, it is also important to note that this is the first time that Infobip has been recognised as a Top Employer across any of its operations across the globe. So, we are proud to say that Africa is leading the way in this area.”  Reshanda Jooste, People Operations Lead for Africa at Infobip, explains that the organisation had to meet rigorous criteria and undergo a strict process to achieve the Top Employer certification.  “Firstly, we needed to subject our HR policies, practices and procedures to evaluation. Once these were pre-approved, we needed to complete an HR Best Practices survey, which is an international benchmark that all organisations that participate in this programme must complete.  “Thereafter, organisations receive overall scoring, followed by comparative feedback on HR for their activities. This is useful as it allows you to gain insight into other organisations’ people practices,” says Jooste.  Minimum criteria  Jooste adds that to qualify for entry into the programme, companies must have a minimum global headcount of 2 500. She adds that the certification criteria was the same for all four African countries, as Infobip’s HR practices on the continent are aligned with its global strategy.  “The Top Employer certification is valid for a year and can be reissued on a yearly basis, provided that the organisation completes the process every year. At this stage, Infobip signed an agreement to be part of the programme for the next three years and to go through the process on an annual basis,” adds Jooste.  She points out that the Top Employer Institute’s certification differs to that of other organisations as it is based purely on an audit of processes and not on customer and employee satisfaction scores. External auditors are brought in to audit Top Employee participants to ensure compliance and the integrity of the final results.  “Attaining this certification would not have been possible without teamwork and collaboration. Those are truly the values of Infobip and that is why we were able to be compliant and achieve this great milestone,” she concludes. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Infobip. Editorial Contacts:
Sarah BENMOUSSA
PR MEDIA
212 660 23 20 30
sarah.benmoussa@prmediacom.com