Since democratic government was restored in 1999 anchored on a constitution put together by the military and top civil servants that swore in Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as President, every elected National Assembly has had as one of its core committees Constitution Review. This is one of the so-called juicy committees whose membership is a privilege. It is ‘juicy’ in the sense that members of this committee usually go on a ‘retreat’ which can last for three to five days in a posh hotel invariably out of Abuja with all expenses paid and generous allowances. The whole idea is that during the refresher course, the members will be flooded with innovative ideas to fashion a more functional constitution for Nigeria. Whether this has ever been achieved or can’t be achieved is another matter. The jury, which is the Nigerian public, has not come to a verdict and is still out. The whole point that needs forensic and critical analysis is whether the 1999 constitution as amended is really a genuine legal document. It is predicated and hinged in a declaration which is not true to wit – “we the people”  The argument has been made in some quarters that the body set up under President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration had done this job. That argument can be punctured upfront because in spite of all the billions of naira spent on accommodation, allowances and administrative expenses, that exercise has no legal authority or backing. At best, it is a document that can assist discussions of the constitution body.
 
During the course of that conference, there was a meeting at Hotel Barcelona in Abuja, which Gen. Buhari (not yet President) attended. I was at that meeting. General Buhari, in reference to the ongoing conference, said the exercise was a waste of public funds having been generated by a knee-jerk reaction to defuse the heated polity. The temperature of the nation at that time was almost at boiling point. It is therefore not surprising that its recommendations have been deliberately left to gather dust on bookshelves.  It is only when these institutions are firmly entrenched and functional that plans for a unified nation will thrive and grow.
 
Our years of paper independence have unfortunately been wasted by a parasitic-slave bourgeois class who has continued to function as commission agents for our former colonial masters. The colonial masters continue to have a field day of exploitation knowing we cannot make any progress with the current status quo. This class of rulers is more interested in growing their bank accounts and siphoning money to foreign banks. Corruption is their advanced weapon of attack so corruption will never die. Neocolonialism is much alive in most of Africa and the so-called third world. Have we ever bothered to find out why serious world leaders like Joe Biden, Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin have never bothered to visit Africa? They are so busy improving the living standards of their peoples and only the crumbs from their food baskets are sent to Africa.
 
This perhaps explains why a city like Lagos, which has all the reserves to be a world-city, continues to be an uncoordinated concrete maze enveloped in smelly slums. Can one compare Lagos with Dubai, which is a virgin city forged from an arid desert? What of the narrow strip along the coast called Singapore built more or less by Lee Kuan Yew. Singapore has been transformed into a haven on earth. A respected Nigerian lawyer, Afe Babalola (SAN), is reported to have said recently that Nigeria would collapse if the nation is not restructured before the 2023 general election. With due respect, I make bold to state that the 2023 election will hold with the 1999 constitution and Nigeria will not collapse by then. This nation has that resilience. However, there is a basic but major scientific law we cannot ignore. Every metal has its elastic limit which if exceeded, the metal will snap. So it is with countries.
 
The kind of constitution that is envisaged will recognise and accommodate all divergent nationalities and cultures. All the ingredients for a really great nation including the human component have been placed by a benevolent creator in this land. Why then is this lack of meaningful progress? Could it be the laziness and Slovenes of the human workforce. If these are identified as the retarding factors, then let us address them by fire and force and get that attitude buried permanently. Until all these things are in place, all the talk of Nigeria being the Giant of Africa is nothing but a pipe dream or at the best discharge of hot air amounting to nothing. Dr. Mbadiwe, a former member of the House of Representatives, wrote from Abuja.