 [FILES] Nollywood. Photo/ RockciryFM With the weekend only a few days away, now’s a better time than ever to get your watch list in order.   This weekend, take a fun and worthwhile trip down memory lane with old school Nollywood films that bring to mind the good times. These are 7 classic Nollywood movies you should binge-watch this weekend, so grab a pen and take notes because you wouldn’t want to miss any. If you haven’t already seen this film, then you should this time. And if you have, why not see it again. Osuofia in London follows the travels of hunter Osuofia (Nkem Owoh) as he leaves Nigeria to London to inherit his late brother’s wealth. Named his brother’s sole beneficiary, Osuofia also ‘inherits’ his late brother’s fiancée Samantha who accompanied him back to Nigeria but finds it difficult to adapt to the African tradition and aggression from the hunter’s wife. Netflix did a remake of this classic in 2019, and many people went back to find the film’s first release. The 1992 classic features the likes of Kenneth Okonkwo, Nnenna Nwabueze, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Francis Agu and Okechukwu Ogunjiofor, to mention a few. In his quest for wealth, Andy gets frustrated despite his wife’s support and turns to his best friend Paul, who lures him into a satanic cult. Eventually, Andy sacrifices his wife in exchange for wealth and starts to reap the repercussions of his evil as his life crumbles. When Falz sang Karishika, you probably didn’t understand what the song meant. Not to worry, take some time off to see the 1996 film Karishika to understand why very beautiful ladies are often called Karishika. This classic Nollywood horror film follows the story of a girl ‘Karishika’ sent by Lucifer to the world to increase the population of hell by killing, destroying and tempting people into sin. Karishika includes star acts like Bob Manuel Udokwu, Becky Okorie, Sandra Achums, Obi Mmadubugo, Amaechi Muonagor, Sunny Mc-Don, among others. Another classic that features the cheap special effects old school Nollywood is well known for, Suicide Mission stars Richard Mofe- Damijo, Regina Askia, Ameze Imarhiagbe, Obot Etuk, Patrick Doyle and Peter Bunor Jr. The film’s predictable storyline tells the story of Austin and his wife Winnie, whose marriage hit the rocks when a seductress Monique used spiritual means to control Austin. The best part of this film is really seeing RMD locked in a bottle that’s bound to have you laughing for days. Another classic with a modern-day remake now’s a better time to watch Nneka The Pretty Serpent if you haven’t yet. And if you have, then nothing should stop you from rewatching the horror film. Often regarded as the film that started Nollywood’s depiction of evil seductresses, Nneka The Pretty Serpent also includes special effects. The film’s cast includes A-list actors like Ndidi Obi, Okechukwu Ogunjiofor, Rita Nzelu, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Eucharia Anunobi, Ngozi Ezeonu, Sam Loco, late James Iroha, Claude Eke and Nelly Uchendu. This flic tells the story of Nneka, a beautiful female demon sent to earth to seduce men for their money and souls as she tries to wreck her next victim, Tony. Another comedic genius, Mr Ibu in London, tells the story of a poorly paid security guard who hides in cargo container and finds himself homeless in London until an old friend helps him. You’ll definitely enjoy watching the likes of John Okafor, Charles Okocha, Nkiru Ughanze as they bring comedy to your screen. One movie we all fondly remember for the complete chaos that had us gripping our bellies in laughter; now’s a good time to relive the experience once again. Relax this weekend with Aki and Paw Paw as they reign complete chaos in their home, school and the entire village. Weekend plans? Spend the whole day indoors, heat up some popcorn, and binge-watch all the classic Nollywood films we have listed for you.