As part of its drive to create a wealth-centric community where people will be helped to make wealth, Wealth Nxtion, an arm of The Nxtion Family has opened its doors for the first cohort of Millionaires of 2022. This was made possible during their Live Investment Show, a masterclass in Investment strategy secrets, Cryptocurrency talks and more held on Wealth Nxtion Instagram page and on Youtube via the TOBI Channel. London-based Pentecostal minister, Pastor Tobi Adegboyega, leads the Nxtion Family. On a mission to create five African Millionaires in one morning as part of a campaign to make 100 millionaires by the end of the year 2022, Pastor Tobi was joined on the day by Crypto Traders, Entrepreneurs and Business Owners in leading industries such as E-Commerce, Logistics, Beauty and many more. With a millionaire naira each on the table, applicants came in their numbers ready to pitch their business ideas to Pastor Tobi and fellow panelists in a ‘Dragon’s Den’ style setting in the heart of London City. As part of the selection process, winners had ideas scrutinised to clearly understand their business model and plans for growth. In addition to the investment of capital, every beneficiary was promised a business mentor to help them in the journey of ensuring that they make profit for others to benefit. On a follow-up Instagram live recently, the five winners joined Pastor Tobi where they were introduced to their mentors during the live stream. Viewers learned more about how their trajectory in business has positively changed since the announcement. An AI + Robotics Trader exclaimed that he never expected something like this from someone he didn’t know from anywhere, “for us to be able to come together and build a family and community.’ Also amongst the winners is a textile business owner with a long-term goal to build a global sustainable brand and an entrepreneur taking his business to the next level through digital technologies. It is evident that in just over a week the impact is already being felt and continues to reach new levels. Others hopeful where given an opportunity to pitch live for a chance to join line-up of winners and the Wealth Nxtion Instagram live comments were inundated with the requests of budding entrepreneurs and professionals with ideas spanning Farming, Crypto Currency, Fashion and many more.
Two lucky winners from Nigeria and Zimbabwe were selected and paired up with mentors to help take their businesses to the next level. Those who couldn’t pitch will have opportunities in future through the various Wealth Nxtion industry specific communities as the Wealth Creation Programme will focus on different areas of business. “We are just starting. We will do more, and we will have created hundreds of millionaires by the end of the year. Let’s make our continent great with wealth,” Pastor Tobi concluded. 