To further cover remote areas, diaspora, schools, hospitals and others, the Federal Government (FG) has shifted the NIN-SIM verification deadline from yesterday (December 31, 2021) to March 31, 2022. This is even as the FG has appealed to Nigerians to get their NINs on the basis that more services would require them for identification in 2022 and beyond. A statement jointly signed by the Director of Public Affairs, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Dr. Ike Adinde and Head of Corporate Communications, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Kayode Adegoke, which was made available to journalists, yesterday, confirmed the new date and revealed that NIN enrolments have exceeded 71 million in the country. This new extension was the eighth time since the exercise started in December 2020. According to NCC and NIMC, as of December 30, 2021, the identity commission could boast of over 14,000 enrolment centres set up across the country to facilitate and fast track the verification process. The statement further informed that NIMC has also set up enrolment centres in over 31 countries to cater to the need of Nigerians in the Diaspora. According to them, “the unprecedented growth in the National Identity Database to over 71 million unique NINs in such a short period, with about three to four SIMs linked to a NIN, reflects the concerted efforts of the Federal Government, the Nigerian populace and legal residents and this is truly commendable.” The statement added: “Following the request by stakeholders, including citizens, legal residents and Nigerians in the diaspora, the Federal Government has extended the deadline of the exercise to the 31st of March, 2022. This extension would enable the Federal Government to consolidate the gains of the process and accelerate the enrolment of Nigerians in key areas like the remote areas, diaspora, schools, hospitals, worship centres, and the registration of legal residents.” The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isah Pantami, who conveyed the approval of the Federal Government to further extend the deadline, however, implored Nigerians and legal residents to enrol for their NINs and link with their SIMs during this period of extension as more services would be requiring the NIN for identification. He also reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government to support the NCC and the NIMC in ensuring that the objectives of the exercise were achieved. “The Minister, the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, and the Director-General/CEO of NIMC, Aliyu A. Aziz, on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria, wish to thank all Nigerians and stakeholders for their commitment and support towards the success of the project,” the statement further added. They equally applauded the efforts of the respective staff in ensuring a seamless NIN-SIM linkage, urging citizens and legal residents to complete the process of enrolment, verification and SIM linkage on or before March 31, 2022.