 Sammie Okposo Photo TooXclusive Gospel singer Sammie Okposo has publicly admitted to cheating on his wife and issued a public apology in that regard. The 51-year old singer taking to Instagram admitted to cheating on his wife Ozioma during his trip to the United States. The Wellu Wellu singer in his statement revealed that he had entered into an intimate relationship with another woman. He wrote “Dear Friends, I need to bring a very unfortunate incident to your attention as I am not proud of it but know that this is the right thing to do.” “On my recent trip to the USA (Late 2021), I got intimately involved with a lady, knowing that this was not appropriate as a married man and a minister of the gospel. I am ashamed and regret my actions as it has caused a lot of pain to my dear wife, Ozioma, my family and I.” “As I work in making peace with God, repenting and asking His forgiveness, I am suspending myself from all ministry work until full restoration as this is what is proper and what I know I owe God and His people.” “To my wife, Ozioma, I am sincerely sorry I put you through this shameful and embarrassing situation. I broke your trust and disappointed you.” “Your forgiveness of my moral failure and poor judgement is important to me. I pray I will eventually be able to build back the trust and confidence every single day forth.” Apologising for his actions, he continued “I want to take this moment and apologise to all fathers and mothers of the Faith and ministers of the Gospel for my behavior and moral failure.” “I won’t be here if not for your investment and belief in what God has called me to do. I sincerely apologize for this embarrassing situation.” “To all that have been a part of my ministry, followed my ministry or know me personally, I am truly sorry for disappointing you.” “I regret any pain or disappointment that this news of my moral failure and poor judgement may cause you and I am truly sorry for disappointing you.” “I humbly ask that you continue to pray for me,” he continued. Okposo’s statement comes barely 24 hours after an African Doll, an Amercian-based woman had accsued him of impregnating her. Speaking to a YouTuber on Obodo Oyibo TV, African Doll revealed that Okposo had abandoned her after she told him about the pregnancy. Since he posted his apology, Okposo has put his Instagram account on private.