Femi Idowu, Chairman, Ayedire South Local Council Development Area, Oluponna, Osun State, spoke with SEYE OLUMIDE on the death of Olupo of Oluponna, HRM Oba Emmanuel Onaolapo Oyebamiji, Fadare II, who died on Monday, January 3, 2022 aged 72. What values would the late Oluponna, Oba Onaolapo Oyebamiji be missed for in death?
We thank God for the life lived by our late monarch. He did his best to ensure that this community develops and without mincing words, he was committed to the good of his people. From the very first day he mounted the throne, he set up a committee led by Baale Ejemu Okeoba, with the responsibility to disclose anywhere the resources of Olupona were. He also mandated the committee to move round the villages to know the necessary amenities needed to improve the lives of his people. His death was painful and I doubt if we can get a replacement or someone as committed as he was to the development of this community. He always used his personal money to build infrastructure for the community. For instance, the Local Council Development Area (LCDA) we got was never expected. Our late King used to travel severally to Abuja to lobby for the council that we have today. He facilitated all the amenities that came from Osogbo the capital of Osun to our community. For the LCDA, we are boasting of today, the late Olupona facilitated it and today we are on our own and not under any council. We also give thanks to God because the former king was not a corrupt leader. He was very upright and he never sells another person’s land like other monarchs do. Is there any process ongoing now to name his successor?
According to our history, we used to have traditional chiefs (Baale). We believed that the late Olupona once came as a traditional chief in those days and later returned as king to complete what he couldn’t achieve when he was a traditional chief. When he came the first time as Baale, we didn’t know his name but when he returned, he came and became king and appointed several traditional chiefs. There was a divine indication that the work he couldn’t complete when he first came as Baale, is what he later returned to complete. For instance, when we wanted to build the old Palace, we all said the Palace should be built at a particular location but our late king was divinely directed to erect it elsewhere. However, for now, we are not looking for his successor; we are still mourning him. We have not taken any step on who will succeed him. But when we begin the search, we would be looking for someone who will tow the path of the late Olupona. In the last one month, when we even least expected he would die, our late monarch footed the bill for the signing of the document on building a corpers’ lodge, at Osogbo. There are many traditional leaders who can hardly spend their personal money to fund community projects. Under our late monarch, this community enjoyed great security. He seriously addressed the issue of thuggery and criminality in Oluponna. What are those specific things he achieved, which as council chairman, you would like to complete in his honour?
I have never seen his type of person. I will give you example. When I became council chairman, we bought a car for him, which cost us N4.6 million, so to appreciate his commitment to the community. But he rejected the car. He rather told us to use the money to start the construction of our new secretariat. You can hardly see any traditional ruler in this country that will do that. He said then that car was not the necessity, that we should use the money to build the council complex. Last year we erected the foundation of council church complex. He was the first to donate money for the project. I don’t know how much money he spent before we got approval for this LCDA. Even on the payment of salary to local security in this town, if the state or council does not pay on time, our king will use his personal money to pay. You said the late monarch never got involved in selling of lands…
You must have heard how two kings fought one another and slapped each other. The crisis was because of landed property. The late Oba Oluponna before he died cautioned traditional rulers who engaged in land crisis to desist from the practice. He said such conduct was affecting the integrity of traditional institutions. If I won’t exaggerate, the late monarch bought not less than 300 hectares, which he used for farming in this community. He bought the land less than four years ago. Someone wanted to establish a university in Oluponna and I had about seven hectares among the land the person wanted to acquire for the University. Initially, I refused to part with the land but the late king called and pleaded with me because the University will bring development to our area. In place of my land, he gave me nine hectares of land from his own land. Hardly can anybody do what he did. He doesn’t take side in judgments. What is your take on the planned autonomy for local councils in Nigeria?
What the Federal Government is proposing is exactly the right thing. Here in Osun, Governor Gboyega Oyetola is very nice to us when it comes to council allocation. He doesn’t take one penny meant for the council. But by the time we remove staff salary, what is left is meagre. How do you feel about the crisis among leaders of Osun APC, especially now that election is approaching?
There are fifth columnists trying to create crisis because they are really benefiting from the situation. If Governor Oyetola is denied second term, members of APC would have lost. Citizens of Osun would also lose because Oyetola means well for the state. If the incumbent is denied second term, it will bring some setback to the state. I want him returned because of the people. 