Crown Elite Sports, the producers of Nigeria’s most competitive elite basketball, is set to host the second edition of the Crown Elite Basketball Championship. The event will hold from February 1 to 5 at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos. The five-day tournament will feature Nigeria’s most decorated teams for a chance to win cash prizes, awards, and an opportunity to participate in an international U.S. basketball tour. Founder and President of Crown Elite Sports, Hanson Oguche, said: “We are thrilled to bring the second edition of the Crown Elite Basketball Championship to our fans and supporters in Lagos. This year’s event will be more engaging and energising, with fun-filled spectator events like our dunk and shooting contests, live entertainment, as well as gifts and prizes to thrill every fan in attendance. We are also excited to have the opportunity to showcase Nigeria’s best and brightest basketball talents on the national and international stage.” This year’s championship comes on the heels of the 2021 event that saw Comets Basketball Club of Lagos emerge as champions, and cash prize winners of N1million. This year’s event will feature eight elite basketball clubs and two elite female basketball teams in a fun and spirited contest. Participating teams will include the Ebun Comets, defending champions CEBC 2021, the Rivers Hoopers, NBBF Champions 2021, the Kwara Falcons, first Runners up NBBF conference finals 2021, the Lagos Legends, first Runners Up CEBC 2021, the University of Lagos Basketball Club, NUGA Gold Medalists, the Lagos Islanders, the Dodan Warriors, and the Raptors Basketball Club. Founded in Abuja in 2009, Crown Elite Sports is a Nigerian Basketball Federation (NBBF) affiliated, and Nigerian University Games (NUGA) endorsed sports management organization that works to maximize the potential of talented youth athletes and professional players through sporting championships, player development programs and educational counseling.