 Asian Civilisations Museum. Photo Guo Pei Since creation, museums continue to be a place of history and home to all forms of creatives.   From displaying artworks dating centuries ago, to science and natural history, museums house it all. With museums, there is something for everyone, something that is likely to blow your mind beyond reasoning. Museums that display historical artefacts and highlight historical moments are top on the list of the most visited museum worldwide. These museums hold a part of history that resonates with people by reminding them of gloomy and beautiful moments that shaped the society of today. Here is a list of museums you can visit to travel down the lane of history. The Egyptian museum, Eygpt A mummy. Photo Shutterstock The Egyptian museum is home to all of ancient Egyptian history, a history known to draw the attention of many. Ancient Egypt is one of the world’s most popular periods. To date, films and other forms of visual productions worldwide produce contents that reflect stories from ancient Egypt. The museum exhibitions are showcased over two floors; The first-floor houses exhibitions are grouped by categories. The collections here change positions. Some of the floor’s exhibitions include the Tutankhamun tomb and several Egyptian divinity statues. The ground floor displays in chronological order the journey of the Eygpt history of 5000 years, showcasing over 160,000 items. Anglo-Boer War museum, South Africa Agrandir at the Anglo-Boer War Museum Anglo- Boer War museum houses artefacts that give an insight into the events of the Anglo-Boer war fought from October 11, 1899 – May 31, 1902, between Great Britain and the two Boer (Afrikaner) republics; the South African Republic and the Orange Free State. The war museum, which is in Bloemfontein, South Africa, is also a memorial site that commemorates over 27,000 Boer women (wives, mothers and children) who died in the British concentration camps during the war. Its exhibitions feature actual daybooks and journals of soldiers, name lists of prisoners, convictions and deaths in the concentration camps. It is also the burial place of Emily Hobhouse, a British campaigner, who fought against subjecting Boer women to harsh conditions in the British prisons. You get to see the development of the Anglo-Boer war from one stage to another as you progress through the museum. Auschwitz-Birkenau State museum, Poland Auschwitz-birkenau state museum. Photo Google Arts and Culture Auschwitz-Birkenau museum is a memorial site/museum, dedicated to preserving the memory of many who died in Poland’s holocaust from 1939 to 1945. Poland’s Holocaust was organised by Nazi Germany and involved murdering over 3 million Polish Jews in concentration camps. This was half of the population of Polish Jews. Attracting millions of people in a year, this museum continues to be one of Poland’s most visited tourist sites. The museum shows on-site concentration camps that existed during the holocaust. The sites are preserved, and everything is kept exactly as they were in the years before. Through its exhibitions, you get to have a clear picture of the horrors of the holocaust experience. Museum of Qin Terracotta Warriors and Horses, China Terracotta warriors. Photo Charles Platiau The Museum of terracotta warriors is home to one of the world’s unique finds in history. The museum features excavated terracotta warriors with horses, an exhibit giving information on the life of Emperor Qin, his army, battles, and many more. The major attraction of the museum is the three open pits, full of Terracotta warriors and horses. These relics give a visual picture of China’s buried long history. Asia Civilisations Museum, Singapore Asian Civilisations Museum. Photo Guo Pei This is the top museum in Singapore. It is also one of the most detailed museums of Asian history. The museum reflects an integrated perspective of Pan-Asia Cultures. The collections are a representation of Singapore’s multi-ethnic society, which extends to the social and cultural history of China, South China, West China and Southeast China. Its collections have a diverse range of items, from South Indian work to Chinese porcelain statues, and many more.  