Supected killer of Dr Obisike Donald Ibe, a 37-year-old medical doctor working at Zenith laboratory and kidney centre, Abuja, has said he murdered the deceased with a cutlass because he attempted to lure him into homosexuality. The suspect, Abdulsalami Ibrahim, 26, who was arrested alongside two accomplices spokes to newsmen at the headquarters of the FCT police command, Abuja. FCT police boss, CP Sunday Babaji, who paraded the suspects in his maiden press briefing in 2022 noted that the three suspects were arrested in connection with the gruesome murder of the deceased duo of Dr Obisike Donald Ibe and his friend and housemate, Ezekiel Edoja, aged 31 years, both of D2, 24 streets, Games Village Estate, Abuja. According to Babaji, “The FCT Police Command has since the receipt of this information deposited the corpses at the morgue and embarked on an aggressive man hunt in the midst of painstaking investigations.  The perpetrators of the dastardly act also carted away a vehicle an envelope containing about one thousand dollars, the mobile phone of the deceased doctor and the ATM card, which was used to withdraw money to the tune of N2 million from the deceased’s account on December 13, 2021. “Following the above, three suspects namely; Abdulsalam Ibrahim aged 26, Fidelis Ezekiel aged 27 and Phillimon Hussaini aged 22, have been arrested in connection to the case. The suspects upon interrogation confessed to have plotted and committed the offence. The suspects will be charge to court upon the conclusion of investigation.” According to the suspect, Ibrahim: “That day we were drunk. He bought the drinks for us. I work in his house, but he tried to take advantage of me by trying to force me to have homosexual affair with him. He first told me to massage him, which I declined, then he tried to force me to remove my dress, then I used a cutlass to cut him. “Although I regret my actions, but I was pushed by my drunkenness.”
The Commissioner of police noted: “Our efforts are doubled, commitment increased and passion stirred up to pursuing the course of bringing crime and criminality to the barest minimum in the FCT. 