There is no doubt that the outcome of the state congress of the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held on Saturday, October 16, 2021 marks a watershed in the march towards 2023 Ogun APC governorship election. The Congress produced the substantive executive to midwife the processes for the re-election bid of Prince Dapo Abiodun as Governor for his second term in office. The executive will also oversee the conduct of elections into other political offices preparatory to the 2023 general elections, beginning from the State House of Assembly to the National Assembly.
 
The truth is not far-fetched. The national leadership of the APC’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) was very much at home with the emergence of Chief Yemi Sanusi as the State Chairman of the party, as it sent representatives led by Mr Wale Ohu to supervise the congress held at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Kuto, Abeokuta. The event was also monitored by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). 
 
It is instructive that the Governor’s camp controls all the 236 wards, 20 local government areas and the state executive of the party. This dominance makes it wield appreciable influence in the scheme of things. Similarly, the governor’s winning team cleared all the seats in the local government election conducted last July, an added advantage, which gives the Governor’s support base an edge over others.  Despite his anti-party activities, which manifested in sponsoring his cronies contesting in APM, while he ran on the APC platform and won Ogun Central seat, Amosun still got away with his misconduct due to his strong and personal relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari. Amosun is considered a clever politician that understands the intricacies of local politics. He relishes in make-beliefs, but his greatest undoing is hinged on his promises not to redeem them. “We are going to do everything” (Gbogbo e ni a maa se) is a rhetoric, which often characterised his usual promises to the people of Ogun State. But in the end nothing would materialise. His promises smacked of deceit, betrayal and lies. 