Justice Mojisola Dada of a Special Offences Court, Lagos, has granted an internet celebrity, Ismaila Mustapha, popularly known as Mompha, bail of N200 million with two sureties in like sum. The trial judge granted his application for bail deposed to by Ademola Adefolaju through his counsel, Gboyega Oyewole (SAN). In a ruling after listening to arguments from both Oyewole and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s (EFCC) counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, on bail application, Justice Dada ordered that one of two sureties must own property valued at N100million within the jurisdiction. The court also ordered that he remanded in the custody of a Correctional Centre of his choice in Lagos pending perfection of his bail conditions while his international passport already submitted is to remain in custody of the court’s registrar. The EFCC had arraigned Mompha, alongside his firm, Ismalob Global Investment Limited for alleged money laundering to the tune of over N6billion. He is facing an eight-count charge bordering on the offences of conspiracy and money laundering.
Mompha pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Earlier before the ruling, Oyewole prayed the court to grant his client bail for him to prepare for his defence in his trial before Justice Mohammed Liman of Federal High Court. The senior lawyer, who argued that Justice Liman had been transferred out of Lagos but he has been given fiat to continue with the matter, noted that though, no date has been fixed for the defendant to open his defence. In his18 paragraph affidavit in support of his bail application, which was deposed to by Adefolaju Ademola, he said defendant (Mompha) has never jumped bail or missed any date of his trial before Justice Liman. Oyewole further submitted that even when he had COVID-19, he complied with the order of the court. “When he had COVID-19, his medical details were registered outside the country. We attached all the report to the letter I personally signed to send to EFCC, to assure the commission that by January my client will have fully recuperated and he did. He walked by himself to the EFCC as I promised. He was never arrested anywhere.” The EFCC counsel, Oyedepo had in counter affidavit told the court that the defendant in the last seven months did not comply with the court order. He said the defendant was supposed to limit himself to UAE, he alleged that he violated court order. He prayed the court to take all measure  necessary to prevent undue delay in conduct of the matter. However, Justice Dada ruled that she has perused the series of annexure attached by the parties. She held that since Federal High court admitted him to bail, she is constraint to grant him bail in the sun of N200 million with two sureties in like sum. The judge therefore granted an accelerated hearing, adjourned trial to March 23, 29, 2022. Ordered defendant to be remanded in Nigerian Correctional facility, Ikoyi.