Osinbajo, Atiku, Tinubu, Saraki, Okorocha, Kalu Strategise Countless meetings are being held in various spots in Abuja, the Federal Capital. From each of the meetings, heavyweight political actors emerge with despondency and furrowed faces.
    
The build-up to the historic 2023 general elections in Nigeria is proving a very tough knot to untie. The fallouts of the 2020 #EndSARS protest, which activated the conversations over the Not-Too-Young-Run Law, as well as debates on electoral reforms, have combined to make the polity fluid.
  
In the two major political parties – the governing All Progressives Congress and opposition Peoples Democratic party (PDP) – the zoning convention, as well as mode of nominating standard bearers for election are not helping matters. Wike’s Rally Against Old Guards
For instance, with the opposition PDP, the 13 governors elected on its platform have begun serious political bargain to throw up the party’s Presidential candidate from within their fold.
 
The governors appear ready to botch the presidential ambition of other aspirants including, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former president of the Senate, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, among others is being threatened. But these aspirants have intensified consultations and campaigns.
  
Despite their determination to install one of them as President, the state chief executives, it was learnt, are beginning to encounter some problems in resolving the competing political interests among themselves ahead of the party’s Presidential primary election later this year.
  
Interestingly, 10 out of the 13 governors, including those of Rivers, Akwa-Ibom, Delta, Enugu, Abia,Benue, Sokoto, Taraba, and Bauchi States, are on the last lap of their final terms in office, with the exception of  three others from Bayelsa, Oyo, and Edo. 
   
A source within the PDP Governors Forum, the umbrella body of the governors, disclosed that although none has indicated interest in the Presidential race, the issue of unity and political harmony has been a matter of collective concern. 
  
Governors Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State are frontliners believed to be interested in the Presidential race. Atiku. Photo/Facebook/Atiku Abubakar Wike. Photo/ facebook/GovernorNyesomEzenwoWikeCON  Feverish Manoeuvres In APC 
Nonetheless, as the 2023 poll draws closer, intrigues and manoeuvres among APC bigwigs angling for the exalted seat is becoming feverish. Among those who have publicly declared interest to seek the party’s ticket are, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Governors Dave Umahi and Yahaya Bello of Ebonyi and Kogi states, respectively, while Senators Orji Uzor Kalu and Owelle Rochas Okorocha have also informed their colleagues in the Senate.
 
Pressures are being piled on the Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo to take a plunge just as it is being speculated that the outgoing governor of Ekiti state, Dr Kayode Fayemi and the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Chibuike and the former President Goodluck Jonathan may soon join the fray as the race heats up.
 
The APC gladiators and their supporters have been advancing reasons such as merit, competence and the need to adhere to power rotation from the North to the South to position themselves for the plum job.
 
Beyond the issue of power shift to the South is also the debate surrounding the need to micro zone the seat to the South South and South East geopolitical zones as against the South West geopolitical zone where the pendulum might swing to.
 
The likes of Okorocha, Umahi and Kalu insist that it would be fair and equitable to zone the presidency to the South East geopolitical zone, which had not tasted power since 1966 when Gen Johnson Aguiyi Ironsi held sway before he was assassinated in a military putch.
 
OkorochA, who led some factions of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to form the APC particularly warned the leadership of the party against picking a northern candidate for the 2023 presidential poll.
 
Those pushing for power shift to South East, argue that Ndigbo had not attained any other top seat since the exit of Alex Ekwueme and Ebitu Ukiwe who served as Vice President to President Shehu Shagari in the second republic and the military regime led by Gen Ibrahim Babangida over 30 years ago.
 
Amaechi who is said to have subterraneously reaching out to key stakeholders of the party , particularly in the North is also banking on the argument that the South South geopolitical zone which oils the country’s economy be allowed to complete Jonathan full two term tenure of 4 years each. 
 
There are also talks among a few members of the cabals surrounding President Buhari to reconsider Jonathan whose sense of magnanimity in ceding power without a single gun shot after his defeat at the poll in the 2015 poll.
 
Power brokers from the North argue that ceding power to Jonathan would easily pave the way for one of their own to regain power after 4 years as against 8 years of it is allowed to slip into the hands of any of the aspirants in the south east or South West geopolitical zones. Pro-Tinubu, Osinbajo Camps Strategise
There had been war of words between Tinubu supporters and those of Osinbajo in recent time on the suitability of the duo to succeed President Buhari in the 2023 poll.
 
Tinubu, who shrugged off the question on his potential race with Osinbajo at the party primaries have already approached President Buhari for his blessing ahead of his formal declaration for the exalted seat. Osinbajo  “Some people say everything goes in politics, not everything goes in politics.We shall have minimal thresholds below which we won’t operate and the irreducible minimum is that after eight years of Presidency in the North, the logic, common sense, equity, justice and fairness demand that power should move to the Southern part of the country.
 
“And who is better qualified? Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu should be given the choice of first refusal. More than any other person, he has sacrificed more for this democracy, for the APC.
 
“He is a tested, accomplished and large-hearted leader who has invested his resources in building an extensive network of political mentees who have risen to the pick of their careers. He’s a leader of leaders. A mentor who has mentored some of the best hands in this country.” 