There are hopes that the much-expected Lekki Deep Seaport will soon be completed as the promoters of the project disclosed that the facility is about 80 percent completed. Detailed statistics on the construction work obtained by The Guardian showed that total works on Nigeria’s first deep seaport is now 79.68 percent completed. According to the firm, “Dredging and reclamation works is now 89.93 percent completed. “Quay wall is now 85.65 percent completed. The Breakwater is now 79.66 percent completed. “For landside infrastructure, works done is now 67.82 percent completed, bringing total works carried out on the project as at Thursday, 6th of January 2022 to 79.68 percent completion stage.” The deep seaport project is expected to contribute more than $200 billion to the government coffers and create close to 170,000 new jobs. Managing Director, Lekki Port, Du Ruogang had earlier assured that the project is on course and on schedule for completion. He added that the EPC contractor, China Harbour Engineering Company and Tolaram (the promoters) are working round the clock to ensure timely completion and to deliver a world-class port that would be the deepest port in Sub-Saharan African region. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, during an inspection visit to the port, also expressed great satisfaction with the level of progress recorded on the construction of the Lekki Deep Sea Port project. Amaechi said: “I am very delighted and impressed with the pace and the progress of construction work on this project from the last time I was here in November 2020. The promoter of the project-Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited has demonstrated strong commitment and capacity to deliver the project as agreed,” he said. The Executive Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu had said, “the project is going to transform the way we do commerce. With the completion of the project, turnaround time will be faster; movement of goods will be cheaper, we can see businesses booming and ease of doing business will be improved,” The deep seaport with 2.7 million TEUs projected capacity per annum will have 600 meters turning circle and 16.5 meters draught. It will have three container berths, dry bulk berth, and three liquid berths, marine facility berthing facilities. 