• As group formally declares for PDP today Lead Visioner of Lagos4Lagos, Dr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran, popularly known as ‘Jandor’ has urged the electorate in Lagos State to shun party affiliation and cast their votes for individuals who are of good reputations and foresight. He stated that it is time to deliver Lagos from those who feel entitled to its political space, and give room for those who are passionate about the welfare of every citizen and the state’s progress and development.
 
Jandor stated this at the Lagos4Lagos gathering organised by the Amuwo Odofin Local Government chapter of the Movement to express their readiness for the January 21, formal declaration of the group for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to him, the situation of the state does not care about what political party the voters and citizens belong, adding that it is time Lagosians take their destiny in their hands to salvage the state from those who are exploiting it.
  
He commended PDP for welcoming him into their midst with open arms, saying that with the number of members Lagos4Lagos has, the party would coast to victory in 2023 with ease.
 
He said: “With us coming together to join forces, we are going to win with ease. January 21 is the day that we have set aside for a final burial of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state. That day, that political party called APC will cease to exist in Lagos. We are going to rewrite the history of our dear state and it will happen in 2023.”
 
Jandor, however, urged some members of PDP who are not satisfied with Lagos4Lagos presence in the party to accept them, saying that it is time to work together.
  
“I would like to address you, I know I have received many calls from so many quarters that some in PDP are abusing us because we are coming, they are calling us names but I have said one thing to our people, I said don’t attack anybody we are going to use love and hard work to buy all of them to our side and that is what we are going to do.
   
“We are not coming into PDP to destroy what you have done in the name of party structure but what we have brought to you is to say, yes you have the structure but take a decision whether you want to continue to use that structure to be delegates and get something in the name of being delegates and it ends there or use it and convert it to government structure.  Unveiling part of his plans for governance in 2023, Jandor assured that he will run an all-inclusive government that will cater for all, including people living with disabilities.
 
He said, “Working closely with former governor Babatunde Fashola during his tenure, I remember vividly at a point then that he mandated all ministries of government to create a platform for all persons living with disabilities so that they can access government facilities. We learnt a lot from that and I can assure that we will build on that to build a Lagos that works for all.”
 
Also speaking at the event, Lagos PDP stalwart, Alhaja Tanwa Olusi emphasised the need for the people to get their PVCs’, saying that it is the only way that the people can change the government in Lagos State. 