• Dues Should Be Harmonised — Transporters A sneak preview of what may play out in the days ahead presented itself during a briefing to announce the introduction of the N800 daily Consolidated Informal Transport Sector Levy (CITSL), by the Lagos State government.
  
The state Commissioner for Finance, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, who spoke on behalf of the government, informed that the introduction of the harmonised levy would prevent transport unions from collecting levies from commercial buses, tricycles and motorcycles at the different bus stop, as these operators would henceforth pay once a day from their take-off points.     
  
But Olowo had barely dropped anchor when the state Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Mr. Musiliu Akinsanya, said that even though the unions were in support of the harmonisation of the levies, they would continue to collect their dues at the different locations the way that they have been doing.
  
These remarks jolted many that were present at the session, as they wondered the level of consultation that was done between the different stakeholders before the decision to come up with the consolidated levy was finalised.
    
Even though Akinsanya did not emphatically say whether the fee collection would align with the state’s new position, which frowns at collecting levies at bus stops, the state government was equally aghast by the remarks but restrained itself from joining issues with the NURTW chieftain.  This is aside from the security measure that will be inputted into the tickets when we start. Three months after the commencement of the project, you can review it to help the government improve it. We need not rubbish the government levy because of the loopholes in dues collection. We have harmonised government levies and we expect the unions to do the same.  
   
“We are passionate about the plight of the transporters and commuters. If we want to compel the unions to reduce their collection, we must show example by reducing ours and that is the reason that we came up with this. With N800, a driver can start a journey from Badagry to Epe then to Mushin with the single N800 ticket in a day. There is no need to pay at every local council or LCDA that the driver transverses. The transporters do not need to pay for the cleaning and clearing of refuse at motor parks. We have asked the unions to compile the list of drivers so that they would be issued tax clearance certificates at the end of every month. Lagosians should know that we started this in good fate.”