In the forthcoming June 18 gubernatorial contest in Ekiti State, Bisi Kolawole would be at the red corner, while the immediate past Secretary to Ekiti State Government (SSG), Biodun Oyebanji, takes the blue spot.
 
Conversely, while Oyebanji has incumbent Governor John Olukayode Fayemi as his technical adviser, Kolawale would depend on the immediate past governor, Peter Ayodele Fayose, as his corner man.
  
Both men emerged as standard bearers of their parties through contentious primaries, which belie the determination of their ‘trainers’ to settle old scores outside the ring of electoral combat.
  
Governor Fayemi mounted the saddle for the second term after vanquishing Fayose’s candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola Eleka, in the 2018 governorship. Prior to that contest, Fayose had robbed Fayemi of the opportunity to serve his second term as governor, by stopping him with the legendary 16-0 technical knockout at the 2014 governorship poll. Primary Gymnastics
IT would be recalled that during the 2014 encounter, Fayose of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leveraged his famed stomach infrastructure on the federal might cover to defeat the incumbent, which was the second time he was kicking out an incumbent Ekiti State governor to mount the saddle.  “We are committed to delivering the people from sufferings being meted out to them in the last three years. You could all attest to the fact that the process of this election was free and fair, so I willingly accept to be the flag bearer of our great party in the forthcoming governorship election in Ekiti” Between Governance, Politics
DESPITE the little recriminations that attended their emergence, Kolawole and Oyebanji would be slugging it out in what promises to be a proxy battle between two old political rivals. The two candidates of PDP and APC will go into electoral field with their different backgrounds: one, a grassroots politician, the other a seasoned administrator.
   
The APC standard bearer, Oyebanji, had been in circulation around the corridors of Ekiti State Government House. After serving former Governor Niyi Adebayo as Special Adviser on Parliamentary Affairs, he was appointed as Chief of Staff, Government House during Governor Fayemi’s first term.
   
It is therefore possible that the goodwill of Governor Fayemi and Adebayo, the current Minister for Trade and Investment, would be part of his armour as he wrestles with the PDP standard bearer and his main backer, Fayose.
  
Kolawole was the state chairman of PDP and it is possible that his ability to hold party structure firmly under Fayose’s control helped to win him the support of the rugged Oshokomole.
   
The outcome of the June 18 contest would therefore depend on what Ekiti people want: an assertive politician or a seasoned administrator that focusses on governance to deliver the goods?
   
Whoever wins, between Kolawole and Oyebanji, would however remain a proud lackey to Fayemi or Fayose. Most importantly, on Saturday June 18, the political rivalry between incumbent Governor Fayemi and his immediate predecessor, Fayose, will witness a final denouement. 