A new application that can help in mitigating the rising cases of insecurity in Nigeria has been unveiled. Named Whatchapp, the technology, which has the power of bringing people together, also helps them to watch one another’s back against any attack. The new technology was developed specifically for the Nigerian security situation by two UK-based Nigerian security engineers, Chief Christian Ebede and Nnonso Marchie, of Ozone Technologies both in Oxford, UK and in Nigeria, and designed by Emmanuel Azu Nwaolisa, a Nigerian. There are other high-tech utility apps in the pipeline by Ozone Technologies that will be unveiled in due course. Information showed that since its debut, WhatchApp has been in great demand as a big-time security game changer in Nigeria. The app was designed to enable members of the Nigerian public to participate more effectively in the fight against insecurity. It connects the user with their families, friends, and neighbours and enables them to find out when something important is happening around them, so they and their loved ones can stay safe. “Once you become a Whatchapp user, your location can be tracked anywhere in Nigeria. All you have to do is to make sure your location is switched-on on your android mobile phone, and at any moment you don’t feel safe, or any time there is an emergency, you can send an instant message from the app by pressing the SOS button, and your location would be sent to your friends and family members instantly. You can do this through saving the names, email address and phone number of your friends and family members on your SOS contact. “Whatchapp works with law-abiding and registered residents in the cities, towns and villages in Nigeria to enable them to record and submit video, photographs and accounts of incidents and activities that are pertinent to the well-being and safety of their community and their family. “Whatchapp can send instant emergency report of any security breach or incident in their immediate localities and environment, both to relevant security units and even more importantly, to residents and people around the scene of insecurity, be it kidnapping, murder, road accidents, armed robbery, fire outbreak, unknown gun men, herdsmen conflict, banditry, name it,” the owners stated. According to them, the solution has automatic recording capability, which enables the user to capture and remit the full scenery of the scene along with the security alert. The app also enables users to make instant calls for help when he or she or other people are in danger and need urgent help or assistance from security agents or other people in the vicinity. 