• Army kills three terrorists in Borno as govs applaud the use of Tucano jets
• Minister decries killing of 200 in Zamfara Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) claims that a whopping $15 billion (over N6.1tr) has been squandered through fraudulent arms procurement deals in the last 20 years. According to its report, released yesterday, the political and security elite monetised the conflicts and the resultant humanitarian crises. CDD was established in the United Kingdom in 1997 and registered in Lagos, Nigeria, in 1999 to promote the values of democracy, peace and human rights in Africa. The report said successive governments’ failure to rein in on corruption in the security sector weakened the country’s counter-terrorism capacity, allowing groups like Boko Haram to fester. HOWEVER, troops of 5 Brigades and Sector 3 Joint Task Force (JTF) of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) have killed three terrorists at an illegal border market in Borno State. The terrorists were reportedly killed last Friday during the troops’ clearance operation tagged ‘Operation Dominance’ in Damasak, a border town with Niger Republic. Army Spokesman, Brig-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, disclosed, yesterday, in Abuja that the troops came in contact with the terrorists at an illegal market they operated at Gallo Malawari village. According to him, the troops also recovered an AK-47 rifle, a truck, two motorcycles, four empty magazines and rounds of ammunition among others. NORTHERN governors have expressed appreciation over the Federal Government’s approval to deploy the newly acquired Super Tucano fighter jets against bandits in parts of the country. Chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), Simon Lalong of Plateau State, expressed appreciation on behalf of the governors after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. Lalong added that Northern states are happy with the tag of bandits as terrorists. IN another development, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, has condemned the recent killings in Zamfara State, describing the development as horrific and tragic. The minister stated this, on Saturday, in Abuja following the invasion of five communities and killing of over 200 people in Anka and Bukkuyum local councils of Zamfara. “This is horrific and tragic. Over 200 persons were buried today due to the invasion by bandits. We are very saddened by this incessant invasion and killings by bandits and we are worried about the displaced persons who are fleeing in their hundreds from their communities, especially the women and children,” she said. “We sympathise with the government and people of Zamfara in this trying period and condole with the families of the dead. We pray for the repose of their souls and that peace returns to the state as soon as possible,” she said. 