Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, yesterday, said the 2022 governorship poll offered the citizens of the state another opportunity to prove to the whole world that they are decent people. The governor, in a new year broadcast to the state, appealed to the stakeholders to refrain from acts that could stoke tension and plunge the state into chaos before, during and after the election. Fayemi restated his administration’s determination to complete all ongoing capital projects, including the Cargo Airport, Ado-Iworoko section of Ado-Ifaki Road and renovation of township roads before he steps down from office in October. He said: “Ekiti Kete, as you know, the year 2022 is an electoral year for us in Ekiti. Beginning from this month, political parties will be conducting primaries to determine their respective flag bearers. Later in the year on Saturday, June 18, 2022, we would be going to the polls to elect a new governor. “I will like to use this opportunity to implore us to conduct ourselves as the truly honourable people that we are and avoid stoking divisions and bitterness amongst us. This election is another opportunity to reclaim our reputation as decent people and correct the negative perceptions we were once smeared with because of the ignoble actions of a few of us in previous electoral cycles. “I also want to use this opportunity to appeal to the political elite in our state across party lines, to eschew the use of violence throughout the process, and avoid the use of inciting words, cyber-bullying, and all actions aimed at causing crisis in the state. “On our part, we will do everything to ensure that we hand over to a new administration in a rancour-free environment.” As you all know, we as mortals can only put in our best efforts, but power ultimately belongs to God, who rules in the affairs of men, and it is His will that will prevail in our homeland.” According to him, his administration defied the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021 to record unprecedented achievements that have made positive impact in the lives of the people. Taking a retrospective look at what has been achieved since assuming office on October 16, 2018, the governor said he is fulfilled that his administration has laid a solid foundation, raised the bar in governance and set a standard which subsequent administrations would be assessed. 