Real estate investing is a brilliant way of building a solid source of income. But as profitable as it can be, not everyone knows how to get started. It begins by buying land for development or an already developed piece of land and slowly working your way up. Lucky for you, Username Investments Limited offers the knowledge, resources, and investment properties you need to begin. Having money in your account to purchase a property may be a tremendous avenue to procuring land in Kenya, but if you deal with the wrong real estate company, you might end up broke with nothing to show for it. Even as the real estate market becomes more lucrative, more players are entering the market. Of key importance, therefore, is to find a reputable company with a proven track record of delivering what the customer wants. Username Investments Limited helps take the guesswork out of property investments. It is one of the best real estate and investment companies in Kenya. By researching top real estate growth regions and providing strategically located plots for development or home building, Username Investments help you succeed by minimizing risk and maximizing returns. A Username real estate investment means investing in land or property that will give you peace of mind or continuous profits if you develop it for residential purposes. Of course, since the residential industry is constantly thriving, having the best real estate company help you procure a plot for development, is a good way to ease your process of venturing into the commercial, retail, industrial, and mixed-use development sectors. If you’re interested in buying property for development in Kenya, Username Investments is a good option to help conduct due diligence and smoothen the whole process. Being the best real estate company in Kenya, Username Investments has been at the forefront of providing affordable and value-added land in areas close to urban centres The company can help you make convenient purchases in various towns including Ngong, Konza, Tinga, Kangundo Road, Naivasha, Nakuru, Ipolosat, and Athi River. The key drivers of the real estate industry are the youth and the expanding middle class. They have influenced the high demand for affordable housing to suit the population. However, most young people rarely get a chance to actualize their dream of owning a home due to land high prices; but now they can. Username Investments offers land from as low as 199,000 shillings. Interestingly, you can also pay this amount in instalments if you do not have the full amount at hand. This way, those who cannot easily access credit facilities stand a better chance of owning a home without a hassle. To attract potential buyers, Username processes and delivers title deeds within 6 months once the agreed amount is entirely settled. It has a law and a regulatory office oversees that oversees the documentation process from filling in the offer letter, sale agreement, and title deed transfer form. The company has three offices in Kenya — Westlands, Nairobi’s CBD, and Nakuru. Currently, it has tapped on the global market and has successfully enabled over 500 diaspora clients spread across the US, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and the rest of Africa to acquire land. If you are an investor, wherever you are, you can visit Username Investments, book plots, and make payments online! Apart from being an award-winner, there are myriads of reasons why Username is the best real estate company in Kenya. Get started today! 