Bayelsa  State chapter of International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) has filed a petition to the state Commissioner of Police over alleged trafficking of two girls for prostitution. The petition, signed by the Chairperson of FIDA, Debra Pamosoo, alleged that two girls (names withheld) aged 17 and 18 years, were transported from Ibiono-Ibom council of Akwa Ibom to Elele, Emohua council area under the guise that they were being recruited for sales job but ostensibly for prostitution.
 
According to the petition, a lady, identified as Ekaette Archibong, who received and took them to Elele upon the refusal of the girls to work as prostitutes, took them to Emeyal 2 in Ogbia council to work as sales girls at a bar owed by one Dorathy David. Pamosoo, in the petition, stated that David, however, refused to take the girl aged 17 because she was under aged, prompting Archbiong to insist she will return her to the brothel. However, the older one insisted she would not allow the younger girl to be taken to the brothel, maintaining that they were told they were coming to be sales girls and not prostitutes.  
 
“That Achibong insisted that the victims should refund her N16, 500 she spent for their transportation from Akwa Ibom to Bayelsa if they refused to obey her. The second accused person also supported that they should refund N4, 000 for their transportation and accommodation. The accused persons seized the victims’ phones. But they managed to escape a Keke whose driver they told their story. He helped in bringing them to Ekeki Park,” the petition stated.
 
Pamosso, who confirmed that the case is already before the O/C Gender, Ekeki Police Division of the state police command, said FIDA took interest in the case. “FIDA is indicating interest in this matter. We are by this petition appealing that the defendants be arrested and legal action taken against them for the offences committed,” she said. Investigations revealed that the two suspects, Archibong and David, are in police custody and full investigations had since commenced.