As the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) begins, automobile maker, Chery, has promised to support football to integrate the game within society. Over the years, Chery’s integrated football culture with brand positioning, corporate culture, and social responsibility is well known. Through constant attention and investment, the firm has incorporated the vitality of football and the cultural charm of football spirit into its brand elements targeting fashion-conscious young consumers, so that its brand image can impress the football-loving consumers. The Club Deportivo Universidad Católica, sponsored by Chery secured the 2021 Primera División champion, achieving a historic and unprecedented four-time championship by winning the national championship title. During the period, the company interacted with football lovers and fans, gave away tickets, provided updates on the football games on the firm’s social media account, held touring exhibitions and arranged interactive games at the scene, which won applause from consumers. In Ecuador, the Independiente del Valle sponsored by it beat Argentina’s Colon to win the Copa Sudamericana. In 2021, the football club was crowned Ecuadorian champion for the first time in history, marking another breakthrough made by the Chery-sponsored Latin American football club in football matches. In addition to Chile and Ecuador, it also launched a series of sports-themed marketing activities in Brazil, Russia, Argentina, Costa Rica and other places where football enjoys high popularity among the public. Due to such promotional activities and the firm’s increasing brand awareness across the globe, it has registered strong growth in the “cold winter” suffered by the auto market. Apart from sponsorship activities, it has also carried out football-themed charity activities around the world, such as sponsoring football schools, donating shoes and daily necessities to children in impoverished areas, and sending materials to local healthcare organizations, a string of moves that displayed the firm’s care and love. Africa has always been considered a market of strategic significance by Chery. What actions will the firm take during this sport event? What surprises will it bring to the fans? To learn more about the updates, follow Chery Nigeria on Facebook.