Common criminals breaching security layers at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, raise a red flag that should bother all responsible agencies. Though the notoriety is symptomatic of general lapses in the public sphere, the free reign of criminalities that do not discriminate between airside and land area signpost both operational incompetence and regulatory negligence. But if Nigeria must stave off a major disaster and international embarrassment, it is time to review the entire security apparatus, support regulators to be optimal and demand minimum standards from all service providers.  The specialised agency of the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), specifically laid down Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) across 19 Annexes covering a cornucopia of aviation operations. Annex 17 is the security manual that details standard practices to avert unlawful interferences and breaches.
   
Curiously, the flagship international airport in Lagos, MMIA, has become infamous for violations of security standards that civil aviation upholds globally. Most recently, Seymour Aviation Multi-level Car Park that services the international entry port have become a den of thieves where parked vehicles are vandalised and assets stripped off. Last month, Arik Air filed an occurrence report with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on the attempted robbery of its taxing aircraft by unknown men who encroached the runway at the Lagos Airport. According to reports, runway robbers attempting to open the cargo compartment of its taxing Boeing 737-800 was the second of such foiled attempts recorded by the local airline in just two weeks. On December 16, it was the case of an ignorant auto-technician test-running a faulty car on the Runway 18L and heading for a collision with an oncoming Max Air jet!  By its 2006 establishing Act, it is the autonomous agency with oversight functions for safety, security and economic regulation of the entire sector. By the rules also, all operators at the airport, including Seymour Aviation, are mandated to submit a Security Programme for their operations prior to approval, and the NCAA in turn has the oversight responsibility to regularly uphold the standard. Though the NCAA has achieved milestones in the area of safety, its increasingly feeble grip on ancillary service providers is unacceptable. Besides safety, security is also within the core oversight responsibility of the apex regulator. As inspectors in the NCAA would know, it takes an average of 300 minor incidences before an air crash. How many security breaches must an airport record before a major disaster of national ridicule occurs? The autonomous NCAA must wake up, shore up its workforce of certified inspectors and go beyond aircraft certification to cover the entire spectrum of the industry.  Unfortunately, the Senate Committee, headed by Smart Adeyemi, and his counterpart in the House of Reps, Nnolim Nnaji, have been majoring in the minor and playing minor in major functions. Specifically, the two committees have been milling around aviation agencies and meddling in core administrative functions of the NCAA, in place of closing yawning gaps across the industry. For instance, the lawmakers’ recent meddling in the award of Air Operating Certificate (AOC) to a startup airline and review of grand handling rates, signpost political interference and breach of autonomy that is constitutionally guaranteed to the apex regulator. 