 Sticky post with handwriting the word Later stick on alarm clock on solid yellow background with copy space using as procrastination, self discipline or laziness concept. We start every day all planned, aimed at achieving our tasks for the day. Some even have a “to-do list” they check off every day because they do not want to leave some things undone during the day. These are ways we try in organised fashion to endeavour that our busy day is handled with optimal care. But whether being put on hold when you want to speak to a company’s customer service department or it is standing in a queue at the bank or our everyday actions requires of us a waiting period, but have you ever wondered how much? According to a new survey conducted in the United Kingdom by OnePoll and commissioned by Duolingo, the average person loses one month of their life every year doing nothing at all. This survey implies that you are not catching up after all. A survey made use of 2,000 adults and found that the average person loses 26 days to “wasted time” every year. More than half of the people surveyed said that being put on hold while on the phone was their biggest time waster. While 45% said they wasted a lot of time waiting in lines, and 44% of others waste time sitting in traffic. 21% said that they waste time browsing through social media. Other time-wasting activities included waiting for laundry to finish or waiting for a delivery to arrive at 15%. Most of the people surveyed are aware that they need to practise better time management. Nearly 60% of the respondents said that they have at least tried to be more productive with their time. Whereas the survey reveals that the average adult habitually finds themselves with nothing to do about three times a day, 47% acknowledge they are more productive at these times when they lack inspiration and motivation. Furthermore, 56% of respondents feel they need to practise better time management but feel too tired to do so from juggling other obligations like work and family. Subsequently, instead of increasing productivity, 38% say they fall back on textbook time-wasters like watching TV or browsing the internet. Despite all these, most respondents, making up 70% are looking forward to using 2022 to acquiring new practices that will aid to keep life exciting. When questioned about specific plans for the New year, most answers were attaining more personal growth, achieving more personal dreams and ambitions, and improving as a person.