Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has pledged his administration’s commitment to implementing the Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones (SAPZ), organised by the African Development Bank (AfDB). Uzodimma affirmed this yesterday, while fielding questions from journalists on his return from Abidjan, Cote d’ Ivoire. The meeting, which was attended by governors of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun; Oyo State, Seyi Makinde and Kaduna State, Nasir el- Rufai, was hosted at the behest of President of AfDB, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, aimed at creating wealth in agro-allied economy in the states. The programme, which is expected to be unveiled in Abuja in February, would be chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Arising from the Economic Growth Programme with the theme: Fast-Tracking Agro-Industrial Transformation, Creating Jobs and Economic Growth organised by the AfDB’s SAPZ programme took the central focus, as all parties reaffirmed their commitment to the shared goal of a stable and prosperous Nigeria,” Uzodimma said. He commended President Buhari for recognising the agricultural potential of Imo State, noting: “In 2021, the President, who was attracted by the agricultural potential of our state, approved the inclusion of Imo State in the pilot phase of the AfDB-sponsored SAPZ programme aimed at concentrating agro-processing activities in such areas. Uzodimma described signing the letter of intent on the implementation of the programme as a milestone: adding: “With the letter of intent signed by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), our meeting today further strengthened the partnership between Nigeria and the AfDB.” He expressed the hope that the programme would attract investors going forward, stressing that the state government would work hard to create a Special Agro-Processing Zone in Imo, which will come with high infrastructure investments capable of attracting regional, national and global investors. In a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachuku, the governor charged participants at the meeting including Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) to the President, Prof. Doyin Salami; Managing Director of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Uche Orji and NSIA Chairman, Farouk Mohammed Gumel, amog others to work towards realizing the goals.