• Plateau Rocks beat Amazons in Mark D’Ball tourney
The convener of the ongoing Mark D’Ball Basketball Championship for men and women, Igoche Mark, believes Nigeria-based basketballers need to play more regularly to meet up the standard of their foreign counterparts. This will help in developing the dunking game in the country. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the championship in Abuja at the weekend, Mark assured teams and spectators that plans were being perfected to have the Mark D’Ball Basketball Championship played regularly across the country in a format replicating the NBA regular season games. He said the new phase of the basketball project is focused on revamping the domestic component of the game, adding that it is unfortunate that the basketball league and grassroots aspect of the game have gone under the ground for a  long time. Mark, who also declared his intention to run as president of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), while giving his opening speech at the championship, stated that the championship is among many more projects that would be unveiled by his administration when voted to office. He added that his dream is to see basketball continue bouncing everyday in Nigeria and the young ones play as many games as possible just like in the NBA where 82 games are played in a regular season. “Even if we cannot play 82 games, let’s play something close. This is what the new face of basketball is all about,” Mark stated. In the opening game of the 2022 Mark D’Ball Women’s Championship, Sunshine Angels of Akure beat Hotcoal Slizzers of Abuja 28 to 20. Prior to the opening game, players of all the 16 participating teams kitted in Mark D’Ball tops, marched into the multipurpose indoor hall in Package B, MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja, with thousands of basketball faithful, friends and family, as well as a number of performing artistes cheering them from the stands. In other games concluded yesterday, Plateau Rocks defeated Nasarawa Amazons 38 to 25, while Delta Force beat Coal City Sparks 40 to 25. The competition is still going on at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja. 