• Hoodlums Murder Police Inspector In Imo Troops on patrol in Kaduna have killed three bandits and recovered weapons from terrorists in Chikun Local Council of the state. In a statement, the Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said military authorities reported to the Kaduna State government that troops neutralised three terrorists during a patrol along the Telele-Sabon Gida Road. He said that, according to the operational feedback, the troops laid ambush at a suspected terrorist rallying point on the route, and as expected, the outlaws approached the troops’ position, and entered the killing range, after which they were vigorously engaged. “The criminals returned fire but were overpowered by the troops after a brief firefight. Three terrorists were neutralized in the exchange.” Aruwan, however, stated that the troops recovered three AK47 rifles, three AK47 magazines, two motorcycles, and two mobile phones from the terrorists. He added that Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed satisfaction at the operational feedback, commending the troops for their swift and decisive action in engaging the terrorists. He encouraged them to keep up the tempo against criminal elements.” According to him, security forces are sustaining patrols and monitoring the general area. MEANWHILE, a Police Inspector, whose name was not provided, has been allegedly killed when persons suspected to be hoodlums, at the weekend, attempted to attack Mgbidi Police Station, in Imo State. According to the state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Michael Abattam, the operatives on duty, while repelling the attackers, lost an officer. Explaining how it happened, in a statement, yesterday, he said: “On January 14, 2022, at about 20:45 hours, the Command’s Tactical team at Mgbidi Police Station repelled an attack by some hoodlums, who came in a white hilux vehicle, shooting sporadically, attempted to gain entrance into the station, but were repelled by the ever gallant Imo Command’s Tactical team.” “Consequently, a vigorous and aggressive manhunt of the hoodlums is ongoing with the sole aim of tracking and arresting the fleeing hoodlums since they cannot go far because of the huge damage done to them. However, in the course of the attack, a police Inspector lost his life, while another sustained a minor bullet injury on his hand. “They engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel.  In the process, the attackers were suppressed almost immediately, having suffered a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds. They retreated and escaped in the Toyota Hilux vehicle they came with.” The statement said the Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini Psc, who commended the officers, urged Imo people to provide information and support to help apprehend the hoodlums. He, therefore, appealed to residents for continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies, especially the Police, credible and timely information to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action.