 Vitamin C. Photo iStock leonori (1) It is that time of the year again; a clean slate, a fresh page.   You’ve got this one chance to plan your whole year right. The first month of the year is an excellent time to put your plans down, then waltz through the rest of the year. What trends will shape 2022 in the world of beauty and lifestyle? Let’s take a look at these seven trend predictions. What To Expect Indeed, 2021 came with its twists and turns, sweeping us away each time. What bigger, better and more glorious trends should we expect in 2022? One thing you might have spotted is the gradual migration to long-lasting makeup. Yes, sustainability is a thing now. With this came all forms of semi-permanent makeup and surgical procedures. Will this trend make it into 2022? Definitely! In 2022, expect the healthier option, not the more expensive one, to top the charts! 7 BEAUTY TRENDS THAT WILL SHAPE 2022 Crystal eyelids Amanda Gorman’s Crystal Eye Makeup (1) Not much has changed here. We’ll still be seeing a lot of glitter, pop and crystals. Of course, they’d be accompanied by a winged liner because we love drama. Naturalness may be in vogue, but not when it comes to eye makeup. We predict that we will see fewer nude colours and more teardrops, more sparkly water liners, and more glitz in general. Piercing and pearls are not so far-fetched either. Septum piercings, lip frenulum piercings, and dermal piercings around the eyes may get some spotlight. Mismatched Acrylic nails Mismatched nails. Photo Jazzie Nails (1) It’s barely been months since those cute, tiny square nails popped up, but expect a modification soon. Who says you can’t have all the nail shapes you love? Here’s a tip for mismatching nails; put the most daring forms in the centre. Mismatched nails typically start with oval nails at the thumbs and pinkies. The shapes commonly used in a mismatched set are oval, coffin, stiletto, lipstick and square; in that order. Having all five nails mismatched may be a giant leap for some people. There’s an easy way out; use your favourite shape for four tips, then lipstick the index fingernail! Either way, the lipstick nail shape is staying. Deep part, blunt cut, freakishly short bobs Thechefchi. Photo Twitter thechefchi (1) Nothing makes a statement like a blunt cut! This hairstyle sends a clear message: we are taking a no-nonsense stance in 2022. The cut, made well above the nape, emphasises your cheekbones, giving a sharper appearance to your eyes and exaggerating every glare. The deep centre part and sleekness makes this hairstyle elegant and stylish. Its short length makes it suitable for everyday work and business. For your 8-inch bob to slap right, it has to be shiny and sleek. Tame the frays, or the bluntness won’t have the effect you want. Shiny hair (not greasy hair) is healthy hair. Scanty fringes Scanty fringes have always been a thing, but ever since the epiphany of the Bob, the light fringe has enjoyed its share of the limelight. A deep centre part may be a staple, but spicing things up with a fringe is all the excitement you need. Scanty fringes are the universal symbol of carefreeness and wits. Scanty fringes pair well with short, blunt-cut bobs and long, wavy hair. Adding a detachable sparse fringe to your collection is a wise move. Curly braids For decades, it’s been the same old braids. Not much we can do about that, right? Wrong answer! Recent trends in braids prove otherwise. From knotless braids to goddess braids, more braid styles have erupted. Curly braids have come to stay. Vegetarian skincare Healthy skin will be gold even in 2022. We expect Korean skincare secrets to remain relevant. Expect a lot of plant-based active ingredients; red onion, turmeric, aloes, cucumbers, you name it. Skin brightening skincare Vitamin C. Photo iStock leonori (1) Our favourite skin brightening agents, Retinol and Vitamin C, is in no way near the end of their prime. We expect to see more of these guys. The list of skin-brightening agents may become a little longer, making room for more pigment reducing ingredients. Conclusion Healthier, more sustainable habits will be the markers of 2022. From easily modifiable lifestyle trends to safe decisions in skincare, our predictions point towards a future-forward, long-term outlook.