• Sanwo-Olu Urges ABAT Movement To Propagate Voting Wisely, Correctly
•  Other Organisations Routing For Tinubu To Be Subsumed, Says DG The venue was a carnival-like environment at the unveiling of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement and the inauguration of the group’s working committee during the week. There were persons dressed in different gorgeous attire while some wore same brands of cloth, with the face of a man boldly imprinted in all the attires. Inside the hall where the event proper took place, Wasiu Ayinde Marshall, also known as KWAM 1, provided musical interlude that many danced to, including the Very Important Personalities who also intermittently gave pep lyrics on which K1 rode to entertain guests. To set the event rolling, the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement, James Odunmbaku, in his welcome address, said members of the movement were committed to the realisation of the dream of Bola Tinubu to become president of Nigeria as part of efforts to get Nigeria back on track. Odunmbaku stated that Nigeria needed a leader that can fix the economy because all societal challenges were linked to the economy. He added that the objective of the movement was to break the barrier of poverty in the society irrespective of tribe through the propagation of federalism. According to him, 2023 presented an opportunity to choose who will succeed President Muhammadu Buhari and it is a serious business picking the right choice, especially as Nigeria could not afford to fail with many countries on the continent looking up to her. He said Nigerians must work to pick the right choice and Bola Tinubu was the right choice by ABAT movement.  He stressed that the electorate must get it right by electing a tested and credible leader to steer the leadership of the country, adding that the movement believes Bola Tinubu remained the right man for the top seat. He said: “Tinubu is a tested leader to lead Nigeria out of the woods. We will work with passion to ensure he emerges as party candidate and also win the presidential election.” The leader, Governor Advisory Council (GAC), Prince Tajudeen Olusi described Tinubu as “a genius” in statecraft, saying the APC National Leader is a sellable article in the political market. “We have to be prepared and determined, because the contest would be a battle of might and strength,” the GAC leader said. He added that it was the beginning of a battle of bringing the presidency to South West and Lagos.” The Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who delivered the keynote address at the ceremony, said the movement was about raising foot soldiers who were committed men drawn from the 57 local councils and local council development areas as well as the 377 wards in Lagos to propagate the gospel of not just voting wisely, but also correctly, in the next general election. Sanwo-Olu said: “Our belief in Nigeria and her ability to be the giant it has every potential of becoming – in terms of human and natural resources – makes it compelling for every Nigerian to pay attention to the present and the future. “Our country is the largest black nation on earth. The responsibility we shoulder is enormous. There is no doubt that the destiny of Africa, and of the entire black race, is tied to Nigeria’s destiny. If Nigeria makes it, Africa will make it. If Nigeria makes it, the world will feel the full and undeniable impact of the greatness of the black race, in all ramifications – science and technology, trade, manufacturing, sports, culture, and so on. “Because of this huge responsibility, naturally, minds across the country and beyond are filled with all manner of thoughts about 2023. What does the year portend for Nigerian politics and our polity? Who will lead us in this critical phase of our journey to nationhood? How will Nigeria take her leadership role in the comity of nations? “The answers to these critical questions are deeply connected with our mission here today, the purpose of our gathering. And what is that mission? It is the historic inauguration of the Working Committee of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement, specially created for the actualisation of the presidential dream of our leader and mentor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” Sanwo-Olu appreciated the founding fathers of the ABAT Movement for their thoughtfulness in creating the avenue for addressing the basic moral and political needs of the people. “By undertaking to provide a platform for the people to broaden their political horizon through constant education and enlightenment, you are as well signing up to become their friends and confidants. You, therefore, cannot afford to disappoint them; you must be above board in your conduct, always. You must display exceptional commitment that is befitting of the standards already set by our principal and national leader.”