• Rep urges FG to engage traditional institutions, youths for peace, unity
• MACBAN moves to improve Fulani welfare Bauchi Emirate Council has suspended the former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, from being Jakadan Bauchi and accused him of sponsoring violence in Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa local councils. There was violence on December 30 and 31 in the two local councils during the memorial of the late Sayawa crusader, Baba Peter Gonto. Dogara had warned that the planned book launch about Gonto is put on hold, citing insecurity, amid mixed feelings on the anniversary. Many houses and cars were vandalised in Bogoro on December 31, while hoodlums attacked Emirs of Bauchi and Dass, who were guests at the event. A palace statement signed by Galadima Bauchi, Ibrahim Saidu Jahun and District Head of Zungur, Shehu Muhammad identified Dogara as the one behind the violence, noting that he never showed remorse towards what happened to the monarchs. “The Emirate Council, therefore, decided to suspend his title of Jakadan Bauchi until the determination of the matter by the court,” the statement added. RELATEDLY, Shina Pellet, representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency of Oyo State in the House of Representatives, has called on the Federal Government to engage the traditional institution and youth for peace and unity in the country. Making the call, yesterday, when he visited the Emir of Gwandu, Muhammadu Bashar, at his palace, he said the issue of insecurity is the responsibility of everyone, especially the traditional rulers, as they have a vital role to play in the society. The Ayedero of Yorubaland, who was on a peace tour to Kebbi State, disclosed that the tour started from the Emir of Minna’s palace through the hilltop mansion of former Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd). While sympathising with the Gwandu monarch over killings in his domain by bandits, Pellet announced the donation of 50 bags of rice to be distributed to the bereaved families. In his response, the Emir, who was represented by the Waziri Gwandu, thanked the lawmaker for the gesture and called on other well-to-do persons and lawmakers to borrow a leaf from him. MEANWHILE, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) has renewed its commitment to the welfare of its members. The association declared this, on Sunday, after its meeting at the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute, Abuja, with Fulani leaders from the 36 states and the
Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Convener of the meeting and former Chairman of Jigawa MACBAN, Ya’u Haruna, noted the criminal tag on Fulani in Nigeria. “We are not in any way saying there are no criminals that engage in kidnapping, cattle rustling, banditry and other crimes; but it must also be known that a larger percentage of our people live peacefully and conduct their legitimate businesses. “We want to partner the federal and state governments as well as foreign donor organisations to establish schools, so that our youths can be educated and put their knowledge to gainful use for national benefit,” he said. 