Party Reaping Whirlwind, Says Etta
Six months short of two years after its creation, the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of governing All Progressives Congress (APC) is still learning the art of political party administration on the job. The committee, led by incumbent Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, seems to be labouring under the curse of APC’s penchant for twisted tongues and duplicitous promises. [files] Muhammadu Buhari Buni. Photo/FACEBOOK/Maistrategy/Godowoli  Haunted Convention
AS things currently stand, the national convention of the party seems to be haunted by the insincerity of some of its national leaders. Ever since it was put together on June 25, 2020, the CECPC has been shifting the goal post as far as holding the national convention is concerned.
    
Exactly one month to the February 5 tentative date for the convention, contrary voices have risen for and against the date. The first salvo against holding the convention on February 5 came from Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, who wrote to the leadership of the party, including President Buhari. Kalu contended that organizing the convention without resolving crucial issues threatening the party cohesion, including wrangling in some state chapters arising from the last state congresses, zoning the national chairmanship and presidential ticket, would prove fatal to the party.
  
The Senate Chief Whip therefore pleaded with APC leaders to push forward the convention so as to merge the election of NWC members with the Presidential primary of the party. But, coming shortly after the former Lagos State governor, Tinubu, visited him at his Asokoro residence in Abuja, Kalu’s suggestion was seen as an attempt by those opposed to APC governors’ hijack plot.
    
Expectedly, the Director General of PGF, the umbrella body of the governors, Dr. Salihu Lukman, penned what could be considered a rejoinder to Kalu’s petition. In the statement captioned letter to APC leaders and addressed to the President and state governors, Lukman dismissed Kalu’s letter as a ploy to extend the tenure of Buni committee by another six months.  More Fireworks
NO sooner had the PGF DG released his letter to APC leaders than some stakeholders of the party called for his head. The stakeholders urged APC governors to sack the PGF Director-General with immediate effect. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu  CECPC Sued
While the crisis of letter writing continued, some aggrieved party faithful approached a Federal High Court in Abuja seeking an order to restrain the Governor Buni-led CECPC from organising the national convention in February.
  
In the suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/3/2022, filed on their behalf by Olusola Ojo, the plaintiffs, including, Suleiman Usman (registered member in Nyanya ward, Federal Capital Territory -FCT), Muhammed Shehu (Banga ward, Kaura Namoda Local Government Area, Zamfara) and Audu Emmanuel (Furfuri ward, Bungudu LGA, Zamfara State, averred that the APC would be violating its constitution if the national convention holds in February.
  
They argued that since congresses have not been concluded in all the 36 states and the FCT chapters of the party, a national convention could not be legitimately held by APC, even as they joined the party, CECPC chairman and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as respondents.
     
In their supporting affidavit, the plaintiffs prayed the court to among other reliefs, declare that having regard to sections 40 and 224 of the Constitution, and Article 20 of the APC constitution, the first and second defendants (APC and the CECPC) cannot validly organise and conduct a national convention of the party pursuant to section 85(3) of the. Electoral Act, without first conducting state congresses in all the 36 states and the FCT.
   
Further, they beseeched the court for an order “restraining the first and second defendants (APC and the CECPC) from organising and conducting the national convention of the first defendant unless state congresses of the first defendant are first concluded in all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.” Leash On Adamu Committee
In an interview with The Guardian, chairman of the Nine-man Reconciliation Committee, Senator Abdullahi Adamu (Turakin Keffi) disclosed that although the CECPC expected his committee to turn in its report before the convention, there was no timeline given it (the commission) at inception.
     
Senator Adamu stated: “As at the time we started there was no timeline. Now there have been hues and cries since then due to the quest to occupy one party positions or the other with the fear that when the convention is held they may not see their ambition being achieved.
 
“You cannot blame them for this. Individuals or group of individuals have their own agenda in the party even though the overall goal is to promote the interest of the party. You can’t deny that. We will try to beat the deadline and submit our report so that the party may take whatever decision the committee advices.”
  
On whether the party could go ahead with the national convention despite the festering crises, the former Nasarawa State two-term governor remarked: “That is not for me to say. We don’t hope so. The party is in a better position to read the barometer and say whether it is realistic or not. We are only an ad-hoc organ of the party till we are done with the assignment.”
   
On suggestions in some quarters that based on the strength of character and competence of its members, the Reconciliation Committee be transited into a convention committee, the ranking Senator said, “I am heading a reconciliation committee…
   
“We have an assignment with the committee to reconcile members of the party and submit our report to the party. We don’t want to compound the problems of the party.  Let us get done with the assignment first.
    
“If the party feel any member of our committee is deserving of any other assignment so be it. But, right now, we are in the national reconciliation committee of the APC. No more, no less.” 