• I’ll declare intention after convention, says Yahaya Bello
• Group warns against election of corrupt aspirants A group, Coalition of Women for Osinbajo, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to endorse Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as the consensus candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Led by Hajia Rabi Dauda, the group also called on members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to rally behind Osinbajo as preferred successor of Buhari. Dauda, who addressed reporters at the office of a political group, The Progressive Project (TPP), affirmed women’s confidence in the candidacy of Osinbajo as a people-focused leader with the right intellectual capacity and leadership qualities to move Nigeria forward. She also described him as one who pays emphatic attention to women progress and development. “Without any iota of doubt, we believe that the emergence of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as the 2023 Presidential flag bearer of the APC will give Nigeria opportunity to realise lofty, collective and progressive aspirations. “It is important that Nigerians make a clear decision by choosing a leader, known to be ready to work for the development of the future and betterment of the country, than joining politicians who have tendencies to exploit public office as an opportunity to fill their pockets,” she said. THIS came as Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, said he would declare his intention to contest the Presidential election after the National Convention of the APC. Bello disclosed this while addressing journalists in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital. He said: “We are looking forward to the convention of our great party, and by the grace of God, I will declare. But we must have a platform to run on and that is the APC. The party has been built solidly under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni. They have done a great job. We shall conclude the rest in our convention.” MEANWHILE, a group, South-South Emerging Leaders’ Forum (SELF), has cautioned against the election of a corrupt person to the office of APC National Chairman. In a statement, National Coordinator of SELF, Mr. Preye Wilson, expressed concern that chairmanship aspirants of the party were being probed of alleged malfeasance by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He said it behoves APC to prevent a situation where its name would be dragged in the mud through the misdeeds of persons it entrusted with leadership. The group urged delegates and leaders to consider one of the chairmanship aspirants, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, saying he “is currently the best to lead an anti-corruption political party.”