President of the Indian Cultural Association, Sanjay Jain, yesterday, hinged aviation rebound on better adherence to travel protocols and herd immunity through vaccination. Jain, who just returned from a trip, told stakeholders and the public that COVID-19 threats are real and require concerted effort to tackle. He added that while international travel continued to struggle under the grip of Omicron, domestic travel could intensify efforts to grow and deepen aerial presence nationwide. He said there is no denying the discomfort of complying with the travel protocols. “Many of them are there like getting the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test done before and after travel, wearing of the mask all the time, and keeping social distancing among others. “But, I feel that these are very necessary. Pandemic is still hovering around us and the risk has not gone completely. Hence, the travel protocols are necessary and are in the interest of the travellers as well as the populace in general. Though, one can get annoyed easily as these protocols make life difficult and travel very complicated. But as I said, they are necessary. So these should continue as per the experts’ advice.” Jain said the current travel apathy in many parts of the world is not sustainable, as human beings are naturally mobile. “But with a great number of people getting vaccinated, there shall be a huge desire to take to air travel. The people are fed up as a result of no travel. That is even felt by the authorities. “So, as a result, there shall be more flights, which shall be allowed in the New Year. Unfortunately, the new Omicron variant is creating havoc again and till it eases, there shall be restrictions still on travel. “On one hand, people are fed up sitting at home or working from home. On the other hand, after getting vaccinated, people are feeling protected and more confident. They wish to take up domestic travels, which to them are safer, thereby embracing local tourism. That is a great opportunity for the local sector to explore,” Jain said. 