Former Cote d’Ivoire defender, Kolo Toure, has expressed his displeasure with a post published by former Egypt star, Amr Zaki, reports kingfut.com. The former Arsenal star, who spoke about his nation’s upcoming clash against Egypt in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), took exception to the publication, which depicts Zaki dribbling a falling Toure. Egypt will, tomorrow, face an inform Cote d’Ivoire, who finished top of their group with seven points, beating reigning champions Algeria 3-1. The Elephants were overall more convincing than their upcoming opponent in the group stages, but Toure says they shouldn’t rule Egypt out just yet. “Nigeria is the team that impressed me the most in the group stage, then Cote d’Ivoire,” Toure told Mehwar TV. “The Africa Cup of Nations is a very difficult tournament and the competition in it is at the highest level, in order to win you must give everything, fight and be smart tactically. “The Egypt national team has always had phenomenal players with a strong coach, and they played with a a lot of spirit, and this is what distinguishes them the most. “What distinguishes the current generation of the Egyptian national team is how disciplined the team is, led by a strong coach. “Of course, Salah is the most dangerous player for Egypt and then there is Mahmoud Hassan Trezeguet, a dangerous player that Cote d’Ivoire must be careful around. Wednesday’s match will be very difficult for us,” he added. After it was certain that Egypt would face Cote d’Ivoire in the round of 16, Zaki posted a picture on his Facebook page of himself dribbling past a falling Kolo Toure, during a match between Egypt and Cote d’Ivoire. He accompanied the post with the caption “I am ready.” Toure didn’t appreciate the post, saying that it was a sign of disrespect and that he could never do a similar thing. “I’m sad about the post Amr Zaki published, and this for me is a sign of disrespect. I outplayed great players, never insulted anyone. It’s something I can’t do,” he explained. Zaki faced Toure six times in his career, four times on the international level and twice in the Premier League when he plied his trade for Wigan Athletic and Hull City. The former Zamalek striker won on three occasions and lost the other three, scoring two goals against the two-time Premier League champion.