Any trader could use a bit of insight into what may happen along the way in 2022. That is when experts come into play, giving their forecasts on how Bitcoin, Ethereum, or any other major coin may move and keeping a close eye on the performance of smaller and newer cryptocurrencies. Sometimes forecasts get quite contradictory as you will see in this review, where we’ve collected the most intriguing predictions on how the crypto market may perform and which assets are expected to give the most profit in 2022. Bitcoin’s Vague Future 
Bitcoin was not performing too well in 2021. As a result, the coin may fall, continuing its negative trend in 2022. Today, resting at about $33,000, Bitcoin is still the most expensive altcoin, deemed by many as “digital gold”. However, its negative tendency makes some analysts expect it to sink even further. Some go as far as saying that this year may see the coin hit a price as low as $10,000. In this regard, it is only logical that Bitcoin holders may want to consider dumping their BTCs until they lose most of their value. However, some analysts have completely opposite expectations towards BTC. 1 BTC = 100,000 USD
Does Bitcoin reaching its peak of $100,000 sound too fantastic? Maybe it does, but according to some crypto market analysts, that’s exactly what may happen in 2022. The main reason for such an outstanding performance in the possible future is Bitcoin’s scarcity. The limited amount of BTCs is what sets the world’s most famous altcoin apart from other crypto assets. With only 21 million coins available, Bitcoin may meet a surge in demand this year, skyrocketing up to a new price record. Some experts also believe that rising inflation rates may speed up the process. Ethereum Will Strengthen Its Dominance 
Ethereum is expected to maintain its position as one of the dominant altcoins on the market. The coin will likely be growing in price. One of the most optimistic scenarios is that Ethereum outperforms Bitcoin in 2022. Considering the uncertainty about BTC mentioned above, such a turn of events does not seem too speculative. Another essential factor is that in 2022, Ethereum is expected to become environmentally stable and less power-hungry. Adding Ethereum blockchain’s faster transaction speeds, you will get a self-evident conclusion. From Zero to Hero
Binance Coin has come a long way since 2017. Starting with $0.10, today, BNB rests at about $350. Regular coin burnings, effective PR campaigns, and bonuses for BNB holders make the world’s largest crypto exchange coin an attractive investment option. BNB is among the three top altcoins by market cap, and despite a recent price dip, the coin is expected to remain relevant in 2022. Watch for the Underdogs
If Bitcoin keeps sliding down, retail investors may switch to smart-contract coins instead. While separately not nearly as big as BTC, they may exceed Bitcoin’s possible market cap two times when combined. So, smart-contract coins may be the center of attention in the months to come. Experts advise watching such assets as Avalanche, Polygon, and Solana. Avalanche is a high transaction speed and efficient coin based on multi-blockchain technology that is also interoperable with other blockchains. Polygon is considered a quicker and cheaper version of Ethereum. Finally, Solana offers the highest transaction speed and is famous for an impressive rise of 22,000% over two years. Stay Aware
As you can tell from the forecasts above, trading cryptos is not easy. However, anyone can give the crypto market a shot with a chance to succeed. It takes a bit of intuition and a great deal of awareness. To be successful in crypto trading, a trader must be armed with forecasts, reports, and a set of proper tools from a professional broker. A broker that would keep a client informed with market updates and offer a broad range of top crypto instruments to trade. FBS is one of the brokers to do so. Their services include a Demo account to master trading skills and a standard Crypto account. As for exclusive features for Nigerian traders, they include a Fix Rate option. It makes 1 USD equal 400 NGN, which is highly convenient for national currency deposits. Nothing Is Ever Set in Stone
The crypto market is still young and growing. Anything can happen at any moment. On the one hand, this makes the market quite unpredictable. But on the other hand, this makes it a field of financial opportunities. 2022 may be the best time to start investing in cryptos. The perspectives are inspiring, so with a proper strategy and a bit of luck, a trader may have a profitable trading year. 