 Skincare | Photo: Heart of the Desert Antioxidants are well-loved in skincare, just as much as sunscreen, and this is primarily due to their ability to protect the skin from damage caused by free radicals.   Free radicals weaken skin cells by removing healthy electrons from the cells. Antioxidants curtail this by protecting the cells from these free radicals, so they must be included in skincare. When choosing an antioxidant, the first thing to know is there are quite a number to choose from. While they all function the same way, blending antioxidants with other ingredients benefits the skin tremendously. Here are some tips to help you choose the right antioxidant for your skin. How Antioxidants Work To understand why antioxidants are so important in skincare, you have to first know how they work. The hardest working ingredient, they protect the cells from free radicals by giving out electrons, acting as a natural “off” switch for free radicals. Everyday pollutants cause the skin oxidative stress; this damage adds up over time, causing wrinkles, loss of elastin, decreased moisture, increased pigmentation, and a reduction in the moisture barrier. Any antioxidant will do the fine job of protecting your skin against free radical damage. Here are six tried antioxidant ingredients with great benefits for skincare. A more popular option, Vitamin C (ascorbic acid), offers protection from oxidative stress and functions efficiently with other free-radical fighters. It is also a well-known fix for skin complexion issues, including uneven skin tone, rough texture, fine lines, acne scars, and dullness. Vitamin C is a great addition to your skincare regimen; pairing your broad-spectrum sunscreen with a Vitamin C serum guarantees that your skin is fully protected. If you have dry skin, you should opt for a Vitamin E serum as it has moisturising and anti-inflammatory benefits. As an added benefit, Vitamin E possesses excellent wound-healing abilities, which makes it the right choice for people who suffer from sensitivity and irritation. It’s often listed on ingredient labels as tocopherol and pairs great with other antioxidants like vitamin C and resveratrol. Prone to blemishes and blackheads, Niacinamide is the best antioxidant for you. One of the two major forms of B3, Niacinamide, is used to treat acne, rosacea, pigmentation issues, and wrinkles. It possesses anti-inflammatory properties that helps reinforce the skin barrier improving your skin health long-term. An excellent choice for sun-damaged skin, Polyphenols are natural antioxidants found in plants. They work great at repairing sun-damaged skin and possess anti-inflammatory and skin-calming properties, making them an excellent option for easily irritated skin types. Hyaluronic acids aren’t just popular for holding 1000 times their weight in water and drawing hydration into the skin. They are also an effective antioxidant that removes free radicals, keeping the skin in peak health, allowing it to defend itself from pollutants better. Hyaluronic Acid also helps in preventing skin damage and stimulating wound healing. Remeber to consult your dermatologist before adding a new ingridient into your skincare routine.  