PDP determined to flush APC out of S’ West, says Teslim Balogun A former Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Oyo State chapter, and National Coordinator of All Workers Convergence (AWC), Andrew Emelieze, yesterday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign, warning that his government’s alleged woeful performance could plunge the nation into chaos. In a letter seen by The Guardian in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, Emelieze said: “Our country is in deep crisis under your (Buhari) care. It has been a reign of torture, trauma and terror everywhere. On daily basis, it has been bad news, massive mindless killings, hunger, penury and unbelievable waste of human resources.” On the economic front, he said: “Our currency is being daily devaluated by your government to suit impositions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Thus, there is unbearable daily increase in the cost of living and monumental hardship in the land.” He accused the President of “obvious one-sidedness”, saying this “has led to suspicion and mutual distrust among people. Funnily, at your ascendency, it was as if your ethnic group was empowered to wage a war against the rest of us. Hardly will a day pass that Nigerians are not massacred. Yet, you refused to see this as terrorism. You will rather justify the killings by providing reasons for the daily butchering of Nigerians.” THIS came as a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South West, Rasheed Teslim Balogun, expressed confidence that his party will defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the region in the 2023 polls. Balogun, a governorship aspirant in Lagos, stated this, yesterday, during a courtesy visit to some South West PDP leaders, Taofeek Arapaja and Soji Adagunodo, in Ibadan. Pledging his loyalty to the party, Balogun said he would work with the leaders to ensure PDP reclaims states in the region. According to him, “Our party will reclaim the South West and trounce APC in Lagos in the next elections. The most important thing for us is to work in harmony and forget any rancour. I pledge to make sure that peace reigns supreme in the PDP family in Lagos.” Responding, Arapaja, who is Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, commended Balogun for demonstrating qualities expected of a grassroots politician. On his part, Adagunodo said party leaders would ensure all aspirants have free and fair primaries. 