Groups, under the auspices of Women United for Yahaya Bello (WUYABEL), have rallied support for the Kogi State Governor ahead of the 2023 presidential election. The women, who gathered yesterday in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for a solidarity walk, said the governor had all it takes to be occupant of the nation’s most exalted seat. Congregating under over 600 groups across the six geo-political zones of the country and across key sectors, including Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), religious, professional bodies, women in media, politics, Nollywood, market women, as well as top women entrepreneurs, among others, they stormed the Department of Arts and Culture Exhibition Pavilion, to pledge their support for the Governor. At the event tagged, “One Million Women March for Yahaya Bello,” the organisers maintained that they were very much ready to back the governor and prove that the era of what they described as “bread and butter” politics was over in Nigeria. Reiterating their call for a Bello presidency, the women took turns to address the press, while calling on the Federal Government to introduce relief measures to alleviate the pains of the masses, who they said are suffering under harsh economic conditions. One of the organisers, Comrade Abiodun Ozurumba, observed that Bello would recruit more skilled and competent women in governance if elected President in 2023. President, National Association of Women Entrepreneurs, Vera Ndanusa, said the mammoth crowd was evidence that “whenever you empower a woman, you reap the benefits many times over.” According to her, women empowerment should be topmost priority for the Nigerian government. Ace Nollywood actress, Binta Ayo-Mogaji, who led many other stars, including Ayo Adesanya, Dupe Jaiyesinmi, Rose Odika, Lanre Hassan (Mama Awero) and Madam Kofo to the event, referenced the commendation of the Vice President of Liberia, Jewel Taylor. She said the Liberian leader had acknowledged Bello’s strides, urging Nigerian women to buy into the presidential ambition. She urged the Federal Government to pay more attention to the needs of women. Global President, WUYABEL, Dr. Hannatu Abubakar Adeeko, said she was fascinated by the governor’s giant strides in Kogo, adding that he had overshot the prescribed quota for women, globally. On her part, the Iyaloja-General, South West, Chief (Mrs.) Nike Aroloye Akingboye, said with the massive turnout, Nigerian women, regardless of tribe and religion, had shown that they were really united behind their own.