According to Albert Schweitzer, “The only ones among you who will be really happy are those who will have sought and found how to serve.” The aforementioned is so apt for top multi-media broadcaster, on-air personality, voiceover artist and talent manager, Adedoyin Ayomide Samuel, who is popularly known as AyRubber and would be among those who have found how to be happy. AyRubber has shown that true happiness does not come from how much of personal goals one has achieved, but the passion to help others who are not as privileged. AyRubber, widely regarded as an ace broadcaster, carries the plights of orphans and motherless babies in society as though they are his problems. With his humble beginning, AyRubber has demonstrated that for him, charity begins at home and should not end there. It’s common knowledge that one of the toughest things to achieve in this clime is attaining success in one’s endeavour because of ever-present obstacles. However, Ayrubber found a distinct way to succeed and earn the respect of his colleagues as an OAP, and he is so good that he went on to become a talent manager. But he is ultimately conscious that as a man of humanity, the desire to help others attain is most paramount. AyRubber’s philanthropic visits to orphanage homes ring as a way of life to him–to which care homes in Lagos State have been beneficiaries. The LoveHome Orphanage, a subsidiary of Real Women Foundation, located in the Magodo area of Lagos State, and opened to the public in 2005, recently received an act of benevolence from this ‘golden’ voiceover artist as he donated food items, toiletries, consumables for children and many other items to the centre. AyRubber takes a special interest in helping the LoveHome Orphanage achieve its objectives. “To provide a place for children in need of care, love and protection. To draw the attention of society to the plight of disadvantaged persons/less privileged, as well as promote gender equality through advocacy campaigns, media campaigns, seminars and other advocacy campaigns,” said AyRubber, in a recent interview with The Guardian newspaper. Also, motherless children and destitute at the St Monica’s Orphanage of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, in the Iju Ishaga area of the state, will go to bed fed, knowing that someone they would never get to know is kind enough to put food on their table. As he did to the LoveHome Orphanage, AyRubber donated food items, toiletries and other daily essential household need to the Catholic Church-owned orphanage to help them sustain services and continue “giving physical and psychological care to children that have been termed as less privileged, a 24-hour system of care and protection to the children, ensure a standard of education for the children,” among others. Attributing what drives his passion towards the struggles of children in care homes, AyRubber, in that same interview, said: “My drive has always been to make sure I helped someone from point 0 to 100. “What drives you should be fuelled every day. Be deaf to people’s opinions. Be consistent and disciplined and try to always stand out. I live for charity and I would not relent in my drive to give a headstart and bring succour to orphans and less privileged children in our society.” HurriKane Andrew is based in Lagos. He can be reached at hurrikaneandrew1@gmail.com. 