I have read certain sections of JL Austin’s work, How to Do things with Words. I did not read that book because I qualify to be described as a bibliophile; I read that book because it was part of requirements needed to get a degree. In the interview granted to Channels Television, the Channels interviewer told President Buhari that prior to his administration in 2015, indicators of development favoured his predecessor Goodluck Jonathan. As response, President Buhari said: Well, I am not sure how correct your calculations are. All I know is that we have to allow people to get access to the farms…as I have said, we just have to go back to the land…we have to go back to the land. What we have done so far, I think is that we have achieved some successes and people ought to measure our successes vis-à-vis our problems when we started. You have given your figures as you calculated, but the important thing is this, that the farms…to produce machinery and tractors and so on…we have to build the infrastructure…’  Watching that interview again and listening with the ear of my academic training, something tells me that President Buhari, may have also read JL Austin’s How to Do Things With Words, and is somehow familiar with JL Austin’s Speech Act Theory.  
 
JL Austin said a lot of things in his book concerning how we communicate. According to him, nearly all words – English, French, Hausa, Yoruba, Isoko, Ibo, Ibibio – have what he referred to as ‘locutionary, ‘illocutionary’ and ‘perlocutionary’ repercussions. Simply put, JL Austin’s Speech Act Theory implies that it is almost impossible to consider what words and sentences mean without a consideration of the context in which those words and sentences are made. Let’s look at Benin City, Edo state where nearly 90% of all the foods – rice, beans, pepper, fish, maize, meat, cucumber, watermelon, potato, yams, lettuce, ginger, garlic – consumed by residents are foods imported from the North of Nigeria. This is so apparently because of the prevailing trend – young and old, male and female, all seem rather interested in going abroad – through the sea or desert – to eke a living. While many may engage in regular endeavours like going to school and performing low collar jobs, the vast majority are on to irregular methods of eking a living that spins fast, quick wealth. In the long run, most monies that accrue from these adventures go into the acquisition of property where relatives of those sending those monies live in some kind of relative ease and comfort. If you were looking for anyone to carry out any kind of informal economic activity – artisans, welders, bricklayers, masons, technicians, farm hands, the tricycle riders – name it – chances are that you will never get a regular Bini person undertaking any of those tasks.  The jobs appear too menial for them.
 
In contradistinction however, most northerners engage in both small-scale and large-scale farming greatly subsidized by their governments in the form of subsidies, procurement of fertilizers and agricultural extension services. Agricultural endeavour in the North employs millions of young people who are engaged in revenue-generating endeavours associated with farming. While on a trip to Kano or Kaduna, you are likely to find acres and acres and acres of either millet, sorghum, maize on either side of the roads. You would not find acres of cassava, yams, pepper, beans and rice on the rich alluvial soils that make up the landscape of most of the South-south of Nigeria, especially in Edo state.     
 
So, if you ask President Buhari about employment in Nigeria, and he tells you to go to the farm; if you ask him about exchange rate and he tells you about developing the infrastructure for the farm; if you ask him about inflation in a country where nobody is interested in subsistence farming at least, and then he tells you that you should at least consider growing some of your own food, there is nothing, I believe, clueless about that. Rather, there is everything clueless in a people who import their food.  It is my guess that because President Buhari does not possess locutionary, illocutionary and perlocutionary capacity, most of what he wanted to tell Nigerians, on the evening of his jaded presidency is:  To Your Farms O Nigerians…! Etemiku is publisher of WADONOR, cultural voice of Nigeria.