Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, berated the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) for banning the Nigerian anthem in all public schools in the South East. It said if implemented, it might cause the Federal Government to rescind it plans to release detained IPOB Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, as requested by respected prominent Igbo leaders. In a statement issued in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, by Secretary General of Chidi Ibeh-led faction of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, it noted that IPOB’s tendencies could derail the quest for the Igbo presidency in 2023. Noting that the ban on the use of cow for ceremonies was acceptable, it said rather than ban the Nigerian anthem in public schools, IPOB should join the Ohanaeze Ndigbo to promotion Igbo language, cultural heritage and values in South East schools, so that the younger generation would remain committed and imbibe to the cultural values and heritage of Ndigbo. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide has cautioned against the dangers associated with the vocalization of Biafra anthems in all public schools in the southeast as it will attract the attention of Federal Government to rescind on the request of Igbo leaders to release Kanu. “The Federal Government might unleash its bitterness on the South East, because of its destructive routes to the campaign for the Igbo Presidency in 2023 and dimensional lunacy capable of fertilising the basis for possible military raids on all public schools in the South East with the ongoing Operation Golden Dawn. “We are obliged to tell IPOB and others the truth at all times to prevent projects that will endanger the lives of Igbo people by internal and external organisations, reciting of Biafra anthem in public schools is now prohibited. Ndigbo should flout such despicable orders of absurdity, as it will be the rationale for future deployment of military Tucson fighter jets to southeastern Nigeria. Rather than the enforcement of vocalisations of Biafra anthems in public schools, IPOB should join Ohanaeze to promote Igbo language and cultural heritage,” the statement reads. The group stressed that it was in support of the ban on the use of Fulani cows in Igbo land for ceremonies or during festival seasons, adding: “The recent insecurity challenges in South East was created by herdsmen masquerading as cattlemen to perpetrate the onslaught on our communities.”