Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative has launched a zero-tolerance campaign against the use of pornography, drug abuse, child abuse, rape, sex for grades, prostitution, and youth trafficking titled “I am Forever Precious Campaign.” Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative is a non-governmental, non-profit, and faith-based organisation focused on children, youth, and community development. The initiative was founded unofficially in 2001 by Bolarinwa Omotosho with the support of other notable Nigerians. “We have been providing services to the church, young people, and communities while cultivating partnerships among various organizations aimed at equipping leaders for God’s kingdom expansion and raising next-generation leaders for nation-building since we became a public entity incorporated with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) of Nigeria in 2005,” he said. The non-governmental and non-profit organization based in Lagos, launched the “I am Forever Precious Campaign” on December 18th, during the Mega Youth Summit, at the Africa Theological Seminary auditorium in Lagos. The “I am Forever Precious Campaign” is a “Zero Tolerance” alliance campaign against the use of pornography, drug abuse, child abuse, rape, sex for grades, prostitution, and youth trafficking that has become a global menace. However, he promised that they would not relent on their focus on the Train-A-Girl Child project currently embarked on by this organisation, he added. Omotosho said that these menaces have affected the mental health of not only young people but also many other populations in Nigeria, as they have faced personal grief, illness, suicide, social crises, sexual abuse and exploitation. He noted that pornography is more destructive than HIV/AIDS, and it has ravaged the lives of Nigerian youths, noting that pornography has resulted in many forms of sexual abuse, molestation, and exploitation of young people throughout Africa. He called on the general public to join this coalition to tackle this plague and establish a zero-tolerance policy. 