Party faults handling of opposition in Ebonyi The Presidency, yesterday, accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of lacking understanding on presidential movements or being mischievous by saying President Muhammadu Buhari should have travelled by road to Gusau rather than cancel his trip over bad weather. Recall that the President, who was in Sokoto, on Thursday, was supposed to proceed to Gusau for a condolence visit to the people over recent deadly terrorist attacks but had to call it off citing poor weather conditions. The PDP had mocked the ruling party, suggesting the President might have been afraid of terrorists. In its response, the Presidency, in a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media and Publicity), maintained that as a party that was in power for 16 years, the PDP ought to have known the workings of presidential movements. It said: “There must be a limit to trivialisation. All over the world, Commanders-in-Chief, serving or even those that have left office, cannot hop into a car and go anywhere they want, at any time of the day. “In the United States, for instance, a law going as far back as 1958 prevents past Presidents from travelling on public roads without assured security (how much more of serving Presidents). “When roads are closed for presidential movements here and elsewhere, consideration is also given to the safety of other road users, not just of the President or even governor. “The statement on the issue by the PDP attacking the President for not making it to Gusau, without this being planned ahead of the journey, is shameful and disgraceful for a party that held the presidency of the country in the past. What is their record? “Given right conditions of the weather and all other things, he will return, and in time to accomplish his mission.”
MEANWHILE, PDP has accused Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, of muzzling opposition members and other dissenting voices in the state. In a statement by National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, PDP urged President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Security Adviser and the police high command to immediately step into the situation, which it described as a serious threat to the security of Ebonyi and the nation.