The Ogun State Government, yesterday, said its N100 billion Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) target was realisable. The Commissioner for Finance and Chief Economic Adviser to the Governor, Dapo Okubadejo, told reporters that the confidence stemmed from Governor Dapo Abiodun’s administration’s broadening of its revenue base through innovation, provision of infrastructure and digital transformation initiatives. He said the government was optimistic of even surpassing the revenue target for 2022 due to the numerous innovative ideas already put in place. The commissioner noted that the current administration had embarked on a lot of fiscal and financial management reforms in the areas of fiscal responsibility, debt management, procurement, treasury management, investment promotion and ease of doing business, among others. He added that several economic transformation initiatives have also been implemented to deepen the revenue base of the state while plugging leakages and improving process efficiency and service delivery through digitisation. The state, Okubadejo observed, witnessed giant strides through rapid socio-economic and infrastructure development in all the three senatorial districts, especially the establishment of new Economic Development Clusters (EDCs), with shared infrastructure facilities such as power, broadband and other facilities to improve the state’s competitiveness. He said the achievements recorded by the Abiodun administration in the last 31 months were due to prudent management of resources. THIS is even as the government is to introduce a community-based supply scheme known as ‘water kiosking’ to address the scarcity of potable water in the state. The governor, who made this known in his New Year broadcast, submitted that the initiative would not only bring the much-needed succour to the people but also ensure that water is readily available across the state. “We will ensure the improved provision of potable water supply in our major towns and cities through a continuous upgrade of production capacity and distribution network. We are introducing community-based water supply known as water kiosking, an initiative that will bring potable water supply to several communities across the state,” he stated. On bullying of teachers by some parents and guardians, Abiodun vowed that such an act would attract swift sanctions. “Let me however warn that any act by pupils, students, parents and guardians that undermines the conducive environment for teaching and learning will be met with swift and severe sanctions. Our schools and institutions cannot be practice pitches for any form of violence, either against a fellow learner or teacher. Ogun State is renowned for Omoluabi ethos and no one will be allowed to rubbish this proud heritage,” the governor cautioned. He reiterated that his administration would be implementing its Public-Private Partnership (PPP) initiative for power generation to boost electricity supply to major cities and clusters in the state. The governor assured the people that the implementation of Ogun’s modal transport master plan would commence with its modern bus mass transit, adding that the scheme, to be launched statewide, would be deepened to complement other modes of transportation. Disclosing that the reviewed Ogun State Health Insurance Scheme would be unveiled this year, Abiodun acknowledged the enterprising spirit of market men and women, observing that he had approved the injection of more funds into the Oko’wo Dapo Scheme.