As the February 26 tentative date for the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) national convention draws near, doubts have continued to mount over the feasibility of the date. Not only been the journey to the date been shrouded in controversies, available indices point to the possibility that the date was hastily chosen to pull the rug off the feet of those accusing the Caretaker/extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and its chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni of perpetuating itself in office. History Of Failed Promises
Ever since it held its first national convention in 2014, the APC has been having it quite tough to organise similar meetings. The very first sign that all was not well with the governing party was when it failed to hold its mid-term convention despite promises that the party would be run strictly according to the full tenets of participatory democracy.
    
As the 2016 date for the anticipated mid-term arrived, various interest groups within the party mushroomed, each trying to supplant others and assume full control. Given that the leader of the party, President Muhammadu Buhari, assured Nigerians that he would not deploy state resources in the running of the party, it was safe and easy for the party under Chief John Odigie-Oyegun to cite lack of funds as basis for the failure of its National Working Committee (NWC) to hold the midterm convention.  Aborted Mandate, Spurious Promise
ON June 25, 2020, the National Executive Committee (NEC) of APC sacked its elected NWC led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who replaced Oyegun at the 2018 national convention.
  
At the dissolution of the Oshiomhole-led NWC, NEC through President Buhari, set up a Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, was announced as chairman of the 13-member committee. But, a member of the dissolved Oshiomhole-led NWC, Hillard Etta, went to court to challenge both the convening of the June 25 NEC meeting and the appointment of the CECPC, even as he contended that the body is an illegal alien to the APC constitution.
      
Yet, the CECPC was sold as an interim body and was mandated to, within six months, reconcile the party and organise a national convention to elect new officers to run the party.  Feasibility Of February 26
GOING by the timetable released by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) towards the 2023 political activities, political parties are expected to get guidelines for the conduct of primaries in March 2022.
  
By April 2022, campaign for presidential and gubernatorial elections will kick off, which means that by May 2022, party congresses will hold nationwide.
  
It should be noted that Ekiti and Osun gubernatorial polls would hold within the period of the national convention. INEC has not confirmed that a bye election is also billed for February 26, 2022 the latest tentative date for the APC national convention.
  
Some stakeholders of the party are worried that if the CECPC could postpone the convention in 2020 due to similar off season polls in Edo and Ondo, they could also cite the Ekiti and Osun polls as reason to further push forward the national convention.
  
Moreover, others contend that since the APC governorship primary for Ekiti has been penciled for February 25, 2022, the announcement of February 26 as national convention date appears unrealistic. 