The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has lauded the progress of work at the Lekki Deep Seaport project while expressing hope that its operation would commence by the last quarter of the year. Amaechi, during an inspection of the port site in Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos, commended the promoters on the progress made while urging them to double their effort to complete the port and start operations ahead of schedule. “From the last time we came here, there has been huge progress; what this shows is that when you set your mind on something, you can achieve it. The agreement was that we would commission by the last quarter of 2022, but if we double our effort on this project, we could commission by July or August, and that would be great,” he said. Speaking during the tour, the Chief Technical Officer, Lekki Port, Steven Heukelom, explained that construction work on the project is on course and as scheduled. He noted that dredging and reclamation works had reached 89.93 per cent completion, Quay Wall 85.65 per cent completion, Breakwater 79.66 per cent completion, landside infrastructure development 67.82 per cent completion, thus bringing total works carried out on the project to approximately 80 per cent completion stage. Heukelom also informed the minister that work has commenced on the marine services jetty, which the NPA will use to carry out their marine services obligation. The Acting Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello-Koko, reaffirmed the agency’s readiness to provide marine services for the operations of the port, while disclosing the agency’s procurement of tug boats and other necessary infrastructure for the smooth take-off of the port. Bello-Koko assured that the 300 trucks parking capacity area would avoid indiscriminate parking of trucks on the access road to the port when it becomes operational in the next few months He added that at the terminal area, the Customs building will have a full-fledged examination bay for proper inspection before trucks are allowed to evacuate the area with a dedicated area for impounded goods. In his remarks, the Chief Operating Officer of Lekki Port, Laurence Smith, reaffirmed the company’s commitment to delivering the project by the fourth quarter of 2022, noting that the contractor is working day and night to make this commitment a reality. He acknowledged the support and synergy provided by the NPA, especially in the procurement of Vessel Tracking System (VTS) for the Lekki channel and other port locations in the country as well as the procurement of two units of 80 tonne- bollard pull ASG Tugboats and two pilot boats for deployment to the Lekki Deep Seaport. Smith, however, expressed confidence that the port, upon completion, would be a world-class port and would become a regional distribution and transshipment hub for the African region.