 Pink Dress | Pinterest If you wear new clothes without washing them, then you’re doing something really wrong.   In the excitement of making new purchases, it is not unheard of that many people wear new clothes as soon as they take the tag off without washing them. If this is you, you’re doing everything wrong. But not to worry, this old habit is not unlearnable, and we’ll tell you why you need to drop it in the new year. Here’s why you should ALWAYS wash new clothes before wearing them. New Clothes One exciting detail about adulthood is having the power to buy every and anything you want as long as you can afford it, one of those being clothes. In fact, shopping can be therapeutic, and nobody ever says no to new clothes. BUT! Before you put on your gorgeous new dress right after taking the tag off, here are some great reasons to give it a thorough wash: Okay yes! These items are relatively new, being that you bought them and they still have the tag on, but have you given a thought to how many other people might have tried them on before you? Probably not. There’s a greater chance that at least one person tries on clothing items before they become yours. In the same way, you try on other clothing items that end up being owned by other people. Before you ask, what if I buy on Instagram? Here’s some not-so-shocking news, some vendors have models try out pieces to create content for the brand. And even if they don’t, those clothes have been handled by someone and spent some time in its packaging before getting to you. So, you should probably run it through the washer. New clothes are usually chemically treated, whether it is stain repellents, colour fasteners, anti-wrinkle agents or softness enhancers; these chemicals are big skin irritants. Another well-known secret is that companies sometimes use urea-formaldehyde to enhance the texture of various fabrics and reduce wrinkles in clothing. Now, these irritants might not bother everyone, but if you have sensitive skin, there’s a need to be wary as you might find yourself with a rash. Also, let’s not forget the dyes, the dyes in new clothes could cause allergic contact dermatitis, an immune reaction to an allergen affecting your sensitive skin. And these rashes may last for several weeks and can be very hard to get rid of.  Since clothing manufacturers are not also required to disclose their treatments and finishes by law, we don’t know just how much damage these chemicals can cause, no need to risk it. Cleaning New Clothing Items If you’re worried your new clothes might wear out, a gentle hand wash or delicate wash never hurt anyone. To sterilise your items, make sure to read the label to check if it’s warm water safe and if it is, dip it right in. Be sure to also double check that the colour doesn’t run to keep your clothes in prime condition. To ensure it’s properly sterilised, UV light is a great disinfectant. Before you go shopping for one, remember that the sun is full of it. Spread your clothes in sunlight for a few hours for the best result. Our Final World Now we understand that the wait to wear your new clothes out can be long and excruciating, but waiting is definitely worthwhile. A small reminder to check care labels on your garment to ensure you don’t damage the piece.  