• Akeredolu vows to hunt attackers of Ondo community
• Youths flay killings in S’ West as Amotekun nabs over 600 suspects Tragedy struck, yesterday, as gunmen killed another commercial motorcyclist in the Akinyele Local Council area of Oyo State. The incident happened in the early hours at Labi Junction, Express Area, along the Oyo-Ibadan Expressway. A source said the gunmen shot the rider and took away his motorcycle. Police Public Relations Officer of the State Command, Adewale Osifeso, said: “Updates would be provided in due course.” THIS came as Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday, visited Omolege Junction, near Ute, in Ose Local Council of the state, where suspected Fulani herdsmen killed three people and razed buildings overnight. Akeredolu, who was accompanied by Commissioner of Police, Oyediran Oyeyemi; Commander of Amotekun Corps, Tunji Adeleye; and some members of the State Executive Council, commiserated with the people over the death of their loved ones. He described the attack as unfortunate, vowing that efforts would be made to prevent a recurrence. “We are not sleeping. You can see the police and Amotekun here. We will ensure that this is their last evil act here. Those behind this are criminals. Those supporting them are all criminals too. Anyone who commits a crime will answer for it. The police and Amotekun and other security agencies will set out and bring them to justice. We will treat them like criminals,” he said. REACTING to the spate of attacks in the region, Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) said: “We are extremely worried over fresh Fulani herdsmen attacks in the South West. In the last few months, we had a peaceful atmosphere. There were no major incidents of kidnapping and farm invasion by the so-called herders.” In a statement by National President, Olalekan Hammed and National Secretary, Olawale Ajao, the group called on governors in the South West to find a lasting solution to the problem. It said more men should be recruited into the Amotekun Corps and equipped. THE corps in Ondo, meanwhile, said it arrested 600 suspected criminals during the festive season, noting that the move was part of its ‘Operation Clean Up Phase 7’. State Commander, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, who disclosed this during a parley with journalists in Akure, said the suspects were arrested for involvement in various criminal activities. He said over 500 vehicles were impounded and that some of the suspects have been charged to court. 