To be honest, only icons make impact beyond their area of endeavour and therefore, Adedoyin Ayomide Samuel, a broadcaster, multi-media journalist and on air personality, who is popularly referred to as AyRubber, can be mentioned in that class in the same breath. AyRubber’s heart, love and passion for the total wellbeing of destitutes, motherless children and the abandoned by the society cannot be measured. Icons are acknowledged by their impact, not for how long they have lived. The multi-media personality is radiating beyond the four walls of a studio with his charitable ventures, ensuring that destitutes and motherless children in care homes in Lagos State lack nothing, and he helps those centres keep running. This Nigeria Institute of Journalism (NIJ) graduate, talent manager and altruistic individual recently, in his characteristic manner, visited St Monica’s Orphanage of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos located in Iju Ishaga area of Lagos State, on a charitable visit and donated food items, toiletries and other essential household needs to help sustain services to those inmates. Adedoyin Ayomide Samuel,  fondly known as AyRubber by fans, friends and colleagues is a large -hearted fellow whose love for the less-proviledge is bigger than him. As a young entrepreneur, AyRubber is inspiring a whole generation of givers, committing personal resources to the betterment of others, regardless of race, creed, religion and class. An ordinary Nigerian doing special things, many would point to AyRubber humble beginning as the reason why it is easy for him to connect and engage in charitable acts. It is far from it. It is a matter of the heart. Many individuals who also were not born with a silver spoon but are now societal people today, would rather spend money on frivolities and lavish lifestyles than remember that orphanage homes have not gone into extinction. “So, I heard this from VJ Adams, make your passion your profession,” AyRubber, whose real name said. He added that,“My drive has always been to make sure I give succour and lifeline to people. I also strongly believe in helping someone get out of zero position to the top place”. AyRubber’s hand of love did not stop at caring for just the motherless homes. He recently took his benevolence to The LoveHome Orphanage, a subsidiary of Real Women Foundation, located in the Magodo area of Lagos. The charity home which was opened to the public in 2005, is focused on healing and empowering women and children. Part of the vision of the care home, which is to “the love and concern for children who are the most vulnerable in the issues of maternal and parental and demise, broken or dysfunctional homes, sexual abuses, including rape, and the desire to create a homely atmosphere for the less-privileged”, exemplifies the ideals AyRubber stands for. As his custom is, he supplied them food items for both children and adults, toiletries, cooking oil, detergents, insecticides and other household products. 