• Govt won’t backtrack on allocation for research, says Onu Federal Government, yesterday, appealed to developed nations for technology transfer to help Nigeria stop gas flaring. It also noted that Nigeria produces more gas than oil. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, made the appeal in Abuja while declaring open the National Conference on Strengthening the Implementation of the Voluntary Principle on Security and Human Rights in Nigeria. Onyeama spoke just as the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, at another event, reiterated its commitment to ensuring implementation of the dedicated 0.5 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to research and innovation. According to Onyeama, Nigeria faces energy challenges, which can be solved by utilising gas to achieve the desired mixed energy option. Represented by the acting Director, International Organisation Department, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Nasir Aminu, Onyeama said over the years, the relationship between host communities and the extractive sector, particularly the petroleum sector, has been frosty due to pollution of the environment, including water resources, which disrupt means of livelihood in some communities. Her said: “The clarion call for stringent mitigation measures for the use of clean energy cannot be overlooked, the same way the survival of disadvantaged countries, like Nigeria, who rely on fossil fuel for their functional survival and economic development. Hence, we seek the understanding and cooperation of the international community to pause the bid to defund fossil fuel projects. It is in the light of the foregoing that we implore the developed nations of this association to work in tandem with our professionals in the extractive industry in building capacity for clean energy. We are willing to stop gas flaring but we need the technology that will enable us to extract and transfer natural gas from source to end-users without polluting the atmosphere.” He added that climate change affects all nations, which makes it imperative for countries to share knowledge to mitigate the effects of a polluted environment. Earlier in his address, the Co-chair, Nigeria Working Group on the Voluntary Principle on Security and Human Rights, Dr. Joel Bisina, said it is the obligation of the government to promote and preserve the well-being of its citizens. He noted that as responsible entities, corporate enterprises are obligated to protect human rights and support government activities. The co-chair concluded that the Voluntary Principles serves multiple purposes of promoting human rights, respecting the business environment, conflict de-escalation in the business environment and creating an investment-friendly country reputation profile. ONU gave the assurance that the allocation to research would be implemented at a stakeholders’ forum organised to work out strategies for the policy, yesterday, in Abuja. President Muhammadu Buhari had, last year, declared that a minimum of 0.5 per cent of the GDP would be allocated to research and innovation in order to accelerate development. Onu noted that the policy was is in line with the decision taken at the African Union’s Executive Council in 2006 to establish a target for all member states of one per cent of GDP investment in research and development. According to him, every effort should be made to put Nigeria on the trajectory of economic greatness, for the overall well-being and happiness of Nigerians. He said: “It is well known that countries, which have made giant strides in sustainable economic development, owe such feat to heavy investment in STI. This guarantees continuous economic growth and promotes inclusive and sustainable industrial development. “Nigeria, with an estimated population of over 200 million people, is endowed with abundant natural and human resources. In spite of these endowments, Nigeria is still underdeveloped. This is because endowment with natural resources alone does not make a nation either great or truly developed “Hence, in order to realise the true greatness of our dear nation, STI must be effectively deployed and utilised for nation-building.” Earlier in his remarks, Minister of State, Science, Technology and Innovations, Mohammed Abdullahi, lamented the low funding of Research and Development (R&D) in the country.