 Soybean Oil Pixabay Now before you think you’re cooking your hair, adding soybean to your hair is highly beneficial. Known for its edible seeds, soybean has been a dietary staple in many homes. Popular for its physical properties, soybean oil has tremendous benefits, which has made it a well-known choice, especially in caring for 4C hair. Rich in omega fatty acids and Vitamin E (an antioxidant that protects the hair from damage), soybean oil is ideal for use on dry, damaged or colour-treated hair. Here’s all you need to know about using soybean in hair care. Like other natural oils, soybean oil possesses several hydrating benefits to the hair and scalp. These are some benefits of soybean oil in hair care: Loaded with essential vitamins, minerals, soybean oil improved the ability of the hair to absorb and retain moisture. Its hydrating benefits make it a great choice for hot oil treatment on dry, dull hair to increase shine and softness. It is also used to treat split ends, improving manageability and protecting it from breakage and shedding. Many people tend to opt for soybean oil because it is non-greasy, meaning that you no longer need to worry about oily roots. Unlike greasy oils that weigh down the hair, soybean oil is much lighter and a great pick for softening and smoothing hair cuticles for an increased shine. Soybean oil seals moisture into your hair and leaves your hair glossy and shiny. The Vitamin E properties of soybean oil make it essential for maintaining a healthy scalp. These antioxidant properties help reduce inflammation, remove dandruff and itchy scalp. If you need your hair to grow better with less damage, you’ll need a much healthier scalp. Unlike other oils, soybean oil does not penetrate the hair shaft on its own; however, this does not reduce its ability to seal water into the hair shaft. Whether you choose to use it on its own or mix it with other essential oils, soybean oil is very effective in treating dryness and itchy scalp. You can easily include it in your LOC or LCO method to treat dry, damaged hair and brittle ends. Proven to be effective in stimulating hair growth, soybean oil remains a popular natural oil choice. Its Vitamin E properties ensure increased blood circulation, repaired hair follicles, and new hair growth. One important foundation of healthy hair is a well-nourished scalp, which is another benefit of soybean oil. If you need your dyed hair to last longer, then your best bet is to preserve the colour using soybean oil. Using oxidation, this oil prevents colour fading allowing you to retain your dyed hair colour for longer. Pretty safe! Typically when used on the hair, soybean oil rarely presents side effects. However, if you have a soy allergy, the best advice would be to keep away from it. If you don’t, you’re largely safe while using this oil. Natural soybean oil is rich in vitamins and minerals that provide not just the body with health benefits but also the hair and skin. However, when choosing soybean oil, you should note that it can be genetically modified, raising health concerns. Hydrogenated soybean oil often contains trans fats that can compromise your health and should be avoided. Soy is also a common allergy, so it should be avoided completely by anyone who shows a reaction to it. You can either apply directly to your hair or find products that include it on its ingredients lists. A good tip is to use the oil as a hot oil treatment or pre-poo treatment. Start by warming up three soybean oil tablespoons and applying it to clean damp hair. Next, sit under a steamer for 20 minutes ir cover your hair with a plastic cap before rinsing with warm water. For natural, warm up the oil and massage into your hair from scalp to ends, then leave the oil to sit on your hair under a plastic cap for 30 minutes-1 hour before washing off with a hydrating shampoo. Soybean oil has tremendous benefits in nutrition, skin and hair care. A perfect choice for anyone with dry hair due to its moisturising benefits, soybean oil works for curly, kinky natural hair. Remember to do a strand test before applying fully on your hair to ensure no side effects.