JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, 18th January 2022 -/African Media Agency(AMA)/- SAP has appointed Emmanuel Raptopoulos as the new President for SAP’s EMEA South region, which comprises Southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In this capacity, he will report to Scott Russell, SAP Executive Board member, Customer Success. With presence in 75 countries, 24 offices and ~5000 employees across the region, EMEA South is at the forefront of SAP’s transformation to the cloud. Raptopoulos, who is based in Milan, succeeds Claudio Muruzabal, who has been promoted to President of SAP’s global Cloud Success Services organization. This newly established organization unites an impressive driving force of over 20 000 of the entire company’s talented and experienced workforce to bring new services offerings to market that help customers derive even greater value from SAP’s cloud solutions. With more than 20 years at SAP in leadership roles in General Management, Sales, Operations and Consulting, in both Europe and the Middle East, Raptopoulos’ extensive track record demonstrates the fostering of a high-performance culture of inclusivity and innovation. “The voice of our customers is loud and clear. They want to transition to and transform in the cloud for rapid innovation, exceptional experiences, and next-level business outcomes. With Claudio Muruzabal as President of our global Cloud Success Services organization, we are centering and optimizing our talent around helping our customers maximize value in the cloud with SAP – at every single touchpoint in their lasting relationship with us,” commented Scott Russell. “With the appointment of Emmanuel Raptopoulos as President of EMEA South, we are ensuring a seamless transition in the region for our customers, our partners, and our people. In addition to his deep and varied experience, he has a proven passion for the success of our customers and a strong track record of delivering it.” “EMEA South’s next decade will be driven by cloud growth, anchored by our purpose, people and partnerships and I am honored to take on this new role,” said Raptopoulos. “The region represents a dynamic market for SAP as agile organizations are transforming their businesses into Intelligent and Sustainable Enterprises via the cloud. I look forward to partnering with our great customers across this diverse region to innovate and thereby meaningfully contribute to their long-term success.” Distributed by African Media Agency (AMA) on behalf of SAP Africa. Visit the SAP News Center. Follow SAP on Twitter at @SAPNews. About SAPSAP’s strategy is to help every business run as an intelligent enterprise. As a market leader in enterprise application software, we help companies of all sizes and in all industries run at their best: SAP customers generate 87% of total global commerce. Our machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), and advanced analytics technologies help turn customers’ businesses into intelligent enterprises. SAP helps give people and organizations deep business insight and fosters collaboration that helps them stay ahead of their competition. We simplify technology for companies so they can consume our software the way they want – without disruption. Our end-to-end suite of applications and services enables business and public customers across 25 industries globally to operate profitably, adapt continuously, and make a difference. With a global network of customers, partners, employees, and thought leaders, SAP helps the world run better and improve people’s lives. For more information, visit www.sap.com. # # # Any statements contained in this document that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “should” and “will” and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP’s future financial results are discussed more fully in SAP’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including SAP’s most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. © 2021 SAP SE. All rights reserved. SAP and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP SE in Germany and other countries. Please see https://www.sap.com/copyright for additional trademark information and notices. Note to editors:To preview and download broadcast-standard stock footage and press photos digitally, please visit www.sap.com/photos. On this platform, you can find high resolution material for your media channels. To view video stories on diverse topics, visit www.sap-tv.com. From this site, you can embed videos into your own Web pages, share video via email links, and subscribe to RSS feeds from SAP TV. For customers interested in learning more about SAP products: Global Customer Center: +49 180 534-34-24United States Only: 1 (800) 872-1SAP (1-800-872-1727) For more information, press only:Delia Sieff, SAP Africa, +27 (11) 235 6000, delia.sieff@sap.com The post SAP names Emmanuel Raptopoulos Regional President of EMEA South appeared first on African Media Agency.