An All Progressives Congress (APC), governorship aspirant, Reuben Famuyibo has dumped the party to contest the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State on the platform of the Accord Party. The former Social Democratic Party (SDP) presidential aspirant, said his decision to dump the ruling APC and pursue his ambition in Accord was borne out of the desire of the people and stakeholders within and outside the state for him to be on the ballot. The former APC governorship aspirant, who spoke with journalists in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital on Wednesday, said the leadership of the ruling party did not provide a level playing field for all aspirants, which he said necessitated the call by his admirers and supporters to pursue his aspiration in another platform. The Ado-Ekiti-born politician said processes leading to the primary of the APC have been skewed in favour of the alleged anointed aspirant of the governor, noting, that “it will be unwise to go ahead with that situation looking at our plans for the state.” Famuyibo explained that he has developed a well-researched and practicable blueprint for the transformation and rescue of the state, hence the call by the stakeholders for him to contest for the June 18 poll. He said his well-encapsulated blueprint will deal decisively with “youth empowerment, industrialisation , modern and technologically inclined education and agriculture, enhanced healthcare delivery and women empowerment.” According to him, “we have observed happenings in the APC in the last few months that the state government has been deploying state machinery for an aspirant, that is highly unfair and the process is already skewed and planned for the Governor’s aspirant to emerge, that is the truth. “The process is being teleguided by the Governor and I can’t stay in that kind of situation. I informed my people that, it is not the governor that will vote in the general elections. “So, in view of my consultations and calls by people within and outside, and being one of the founding fathers of Ekiti, I will be contesting the June 18 governorship election under the platform of Accord Party. We will join hands to rescue Ekiti. “Don’t forget, I am from Ado-Ekiti, the largest voting population in the state with over 167,000 voters more than three local government areas combined together, that should tell you something. We are confident of victory. “As you know me for years, I don’t believe in do-or-die politics because it is the service to the people. I have my good name to use for the election.” Famuyibo said his team has begun aggressive mobilisation of people across the 16 local government areas through house-to-house engagements towards the actualisation of his governorship ambition in the June 18 poll. 