Professor Waziri Erameh, last weekend, became the oldest player to emerge overall winner of the Oba of Benin Golf Tournament held at Benin Club Golf Section (BCGS), Edo State. The University of Benin (UNIBEN) Professor of Optometry, aged 64, proved the bookmakers wrong after playing a net score of 148 over 36 holes in two days to win the eighth edition of the tournament. The feat fetched him the biggest bronze head, giant trophy and television set. Former champion, Adegoke-Adesoji Benson, who played 151 net, took the second position, beating Jude Igbinadolor on count-back, while Felix Aganmwonyi placed fourth with 152 net. Osazee Iyare recorded 163 gross to win the best gross award as Debby Otabor won the ladies best gross with 178 gross. Professor Erameh, handicap nine, in his speech, attributed his victory to constant practice and determination to add the Oba trophy to the collection of trophies in his shelve. Also speaking at the event, chairman of the tournament’s Organising Committee, Peace Anunah, noted that the tournament was organised to show the close relationship between sports and tradition, adding that Oba Cup was to promote golf at BCGS, and also honour and show loyalty to Oba of Benin Kingdom, Oba Ewuare II, who is the grand patron of Benin Club. Earlier, Captain of BCGS, Mayer Ologbosere, in his goodwill message, commended the originators of the tournament, Prince Aghatise Erediuwa, Dr. Charles Ajayi and Sir Tony Aghedo, for their foresight. He also appreciated the organising committee chaired by Anunah, Stephen Ebaretonbofa, Esosa Ojomo, Donatus Isuku, as well as sponsors and many others. Other winners were Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, with 74 net in the men’s hcp 19-28, Ehis Igbinadolor, who won the ladies hcp 0-28 over 36 holes with 145 net and Edith Edeki, who won the ladies hcp 29-36 with 72 net. Chief Makole Azugbene played 76 net to win the veteran men’s category, just as John Ogbeide won the super veteran men’s with 77 net, while Omosefe Osaghae 95 net earned her victory in the ladies veteran category. J. Ebhota’s net score of 74 gave him victory in the guest men’s category, while P. Irabor won the ladies category with her 72 net. Debby Emifoniye and Blessing Ovbiye won the nearest the pin hole five, just as Ehis Igbinadolor and J. Aigbe emerged best in the longest drive hole 10 ladies and men’s respectively.