 Cardi B – Entertainment Tonight Cardi B was awarded $1.25 million in her defamation case against celebrity blogger Latasha Kebe (Tasha K) on Monday.   The jury awarded the Bodak Yellow singer $1.25million in damages after a trial in federal court in Georgia. Speaking to Rolling Stone, a courtroom observer revealed that the Grammy-award winning star was present when the verdict was read. The source also noted that Cardi B appeared “elated,” hugging her lawyer Lisa Fortune Moore first, her co-counsel Sarah Matz second and before pulling both lawyers into a three-way hug when the verdict was read. The court filing shows the jury sided with Cardi B on all three claims of defamation, invasion of privacy and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The damages so far break down into $1 million for “pain and suffering and/or reputational injury” and $250,000 for actual medical expenses. Both parties will return to court on Tuesday to settle the matter of possible punitive damages and attorneys fees. While Cardi’s camp is yet to make a comment, the rapper posted a vintage photo of herself with a woman who appeared to be her late grandmother on Instagram, captioned, “My queen, thank you for hearing my prayers…Only you know those nights that I cried to you feeling hopeless and tired even when it seems like I have the world on my hands.” Real name Belcalis Marlenis Almánzar, Cardi B had filed her underlying libel and defamation lawsuit in March 2019, noting that Kebe’s alleged “campaign of slander” involved false allegations she had herpes, used cocaine and worked as a prostitute. Taking the witness stand two weeks ago, Billboard reports that Cardi B testified to suffering extreme “anxiety” and “depression” following Kebe’s false statements on YouTube. She also noted that she suffered severe stress, which caused her to lose weight and led to issues in her personal relationships. “I felt extremely suicidal,” Cardi B testified, “Only an evil person could do that shit.” In her lawsuit, Cardi said Kebe’s videos garnered millions of views. “None of the aforementioned statements about plaintiff are true. Plaintiff was never a prostitute or a user of cocaine. Plaintiff has never, and does not now, have herpes, nor has she had herpes outbreaks on her mouth,” her lawsuit states. Kebe’s lawyers are yet to comment on the matter publicly.  