• I’ve no vice presidential ambition, says Mimiko
• Afe Babalola warns against conducting 2023 polls with 1999 Constitution The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has issued notice for the Ekiti State governorship election holding on June 18, 2022. Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, disclosed, in a statement yesterday, that the notice was pasted at the commission’s office in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday. He added that the move was in accordance with the timetable and schedule of activities for the poll released last year by the commission. According to INEC, primary elections for the poll are expected to hold from January 4 to 29, while electioneering runs from March 20 to June 16. Former governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has refuted the rumour that he rejoined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to be picked as Vice President in the 2023 general elections. He was reacting to media reports, through a statement, yesterday, by his media aide, John Akinduro. In the reports, it was insinuated that the former governor met some PDP chieftains and was allegedly pencilled in as the vice presidential candidate in the next general election. On his part, the founder of Afe Babalola University Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola, has warned against conducting the 2023 general election with the 1999 Constitution. Babalola, who stated this yesterday at a ceremony to mark the 12th anniversary of ABUAD, added that the 1999 Constitution would continue to encourage recycling of the same failed leaders that brought the country to its sorry state. According to him, the country may be completely ruined, if the 2023 election is conducted without a new constitution. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), therefore, asked the National Assembly to pass a resolution adopting the 1963 Constitution to replace the 1999 edition, asserting that the lawmakers needed no referendum to do it. He added that necessary amendments, such as having in place six regions and unicameral legislature, should be inserted into the new constitution. His words: “There must be concerted efforts to change the trend. We must unite to ensure that we replace the present 1999 Constitution with a truly federal constitution and a parliamentary system of government, which is more evolving and less expensive. “It is my considered view that a new constitution must be in place before the next election, otherwise, we will be recycling the same failed leaders that have brought Nigeria to where it is today.” On inroads made by ABUAD in research, the legal icon revealed that no fewer than 19 COVID-19 patients admitted at the institution’s multi-system hospital were treated with ABUAD herbal medicine within five days of application, with 100 per cent recovery. Babalola, therefore, invited the President to see what ABUAD had done within 12 years of its existence. He said: “I want to seize this opportunity to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to see what we have been able to achieve in the last 12 years, as a result of which national and international education stakeholders like United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), National Universities Commission (NUC) and Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) have been commending us. In addition, the President should find a way of replicating our university in the different geopolitical zones of the country.”