Kano State Government has launched a comprehensive rural electrification scheme, targeted at over 100 rural communities across the state. The scheme, a solar home system, owned by Shenzhen Lemi Technology Development and Lemi Renewable Electricity Limited is targeted at small rural communities spread across the state. On completion, the scheme is expected to provide individuals and households with solar power to be paid on installment.
At the launch of the scheme in Kano, yesterday, the Commissioner for Rural and Community Development, Musa Iliyasu Kwankwaso explained that the project would also provide job opportunities for the teeming youths across the state, as well as boost socio-economic status of the rural dwellers. Similarly, the Commissioner added that to achieve the set objectives, the Kano State government signed an agreement with the company to provide the solar facilities. He reaffirmed the state government’s readiness to provide all the necessary social amenities across the 44 local government areas, urging the rural dwellers to continue to support the government’s policies and programmes. In his remarks, the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Murtala Sule Garo, represented by the Special Adviser on Local Governments, Laminu Sani, commended the State Government for bringing the development to the people. Also, he called on the village and ward heads to mobilise their wards to be part of the development, adding that it will reduce unnecessary spending, as well as improve business activities in their area. Earlier, the Council Chairman of Gabasawa Local Government, Mahe Garba Garin Danga commended the efforts of the state government for its people-oriented programmes and pledged to give all the necessary cooperation, so as to achieve the desired objectives. The country manager of Shenzhen Lemi and Technology Limited, Madam Monica Liang, who signed the memorandum, however assured the community of the provision of durable and quality equipment for the project.