• As NNPC, Belemaoil donate facilities to Rivers community Founder/President of Belemaoil, Tein T.S. Jack-Rich (left); representative of NNPC-NAPIMS, Mrs. Clementina Arubi; representative of former President Goodluck Jonathan, Amb. Godkknows Igali; Amanyanabo of Idama Ekulama community, King Karibo Kariboye during the commissioning of potable water facility, 1,250KVA power plant at Idama community by the NNPC/BELEMAOIL JV in partnership with the Jack-Rich Tein Special Support Initiative and Belema Aid Foundation at Idama, in Bayelsa State<br />  They made the call weekend at Idama community in Akuku-Toru council area of Rivers State during the commissioning of industrial-capacity potable water facility and 1,250KVA power generator donated by Belemaoil Producing Limited under its NNPC/Belemaoil joint venture project. They stated that if operators supported local communities, both would coexist in peace, job opportunities would be created and the economy would grow. The Guardian gathered that Idama community had lacked potable water for decades before the donation. The former President, who was represented by Ambassador Godknows Igali, said: “This project is a great model for all other companies in communities to emulate and impact on local communities to bring succour to their lives.” While commending Belemaoil for the gesture, the former President commended Idama community for creating the right environment for intervention projects. Jack-Rich said that despite coming from a very poor background, he did not allow such to discourage him from building a great future that would impact lives. He said: “I come from a community (Kula) that looks like Idama; we suffered a lot of mental degradation, fighting for environmental justice, fighting the economic denial, social relegation and self-dignity, a lot that created social vices. “I solved my problem by thinking outside the box. What you feed your mind with, is what your mind will produce to design your path to success or failure. “Everything you see here: the tanks, water depth, I designed them, the machinery, human resources, and I said to NNPC that we cannot continue to let this community  suffer.” He thanked the management of NNPC for supporting the vision, adding: “If other operators can support local communities, business ventures and the communities will always be at peace because when a mind is not engaged, it will engage itself.” He urged the youths to explore the great potential in them to make a difference. The traditional ruler of Idama community, King Kariboye Karibo, said the provision of water and electricity represents life to the people and expressed hope that more projects would be birthed to improve the lives of the people. The President of Ijaw National Congress (INC), Prof. Benjamin Okaba, and the President General of Ijaw Youth Congress (IYC), Peter Igbifa, commended Belemaoil’s gesture, adding that it was time to change the narrative through intellectual battle and not guns.