Worried by incessant killings in the country, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who thanked lawmakers and journalists for honouring his 63 birthday, said, “ the situation is not too good for the country. He said: “Recently we lost 200 people in Zanfara and some number in other parts of the country. “This is not the type of story we want to hear as a government and country. According to him, it is a sense of sympathy, empathy and humanity that guided the low-key celebration, praying that God would help the leadership to find a lasting solution to the security challenges in the country. His words: “ The country is going through a hard time security-wise. Challenges across all parts of the country have stretched the armed forces beyond their best to defend Nigeria’s sovereignty. “The government has not been able to adequately provide for the needs of the armed forces, hence the resolve of the National Assembly to do its best in spontaneous reaction to appropriate funds for the effectiveness of the armed forces, and we promise to continue to do this. “The situation is not too good as far as the unwanted killings by criminals are concerned. “I, however, believe that things can be turned around for better within the remaining one and half years left for this present administration, inclusive of the Ninth National Assembly.” He added that though the armed forces and security agencies, generally, have been retooled to check insecurity, he noted that more efforts and results were expected. Lawan went on: “In supporting the security agencies for more potent war against the killers in the land, the National Assembly has appropriated over a trillion for security in the 2022 budget, which will be monitored very well for desired results. “In achieving this, our relevant committees will ensure that the procurement process is transparent and what is projected is bought. “The security situation in the country is begging for more attention, and it shall be given because that is the primary purpose of governance.” He stated that despite the security challenge in the country, the Ninth National Assembly had collaborated well with the executive arm of government in giving dividends of democracy to Nigerians within the last two and half years.