Osakioduwa Retains Anchor Role Multiple award-winning entertainers, D’banj and superstar singer-songwriter, Simi, have been unveiled as judges for the seventh season of Nigerian Idol. Leading Entertainment Company and organisers of the reality TV singing competition, MultiChoice Nigeria, made the announcement today January 18, 2022, as the countdown to the show’s premiere in February 2022 begins. Popular radio and TV personality, IK Osakioduwa, will be returning as the show’s host for this season, alongside Obi Asika who makes a comeback as a judge. Speaking on the introduction of new judges for the new season, Executive Head, Content and West Africa Channels at MultiChoice Nigeria, Dr. Busola Tejumola said: “We could not think of a better trio to be the season’s judges than Obi Asika, D’banj and Simi. The three of them combined bring decades worth of experience in the music and entertainment business, as well as individual mastery of their crafts. We have no doubt that they will keep the viewers entertained in what will be a spectacular season!” D’banj expressed his excitement at being one of the judges this season saying, “I was out of the country when I found out that I was going to be a judge for this season of Nigerian Idol and I couldn’t contain my excitement. I’m coming in with my own strategy so viewers should expect a bang.” On her part, Simi said, “I’ve always loved the idea of being a judge and I think it’s a fun thing to do. I plan to be very honest and have fun and hopefully gain inspiration from those that come on the show.” Returning judge Obi Asika added, “I will be looking for special talents and new faces this year. I’m also excited to work with the rest of the judges this season, and I will be very fair and real to every contestant just like I was last year.” After a thrilling ride filled with suspense and humour in the last season, IK Osakioduwa return as a second-time host for Nigerian Idol season 7. He has always given nothing short of savviness, excitement and humour both on-air and now on stage, which is why we have no doubt that the Nigerian Idol season 7 is in good hands. IK is a media personality to be reckoned with, having spent over a decade as a broadcaster at Rhythm 93.7, and hosting a number of high profile events across the continent including the Big Brother Africa show. “I’m so excited to be back on the show because coming back for a new season means that I did well the previous season. I’ll be bringing a lot to the table this season and I can’t wait for the viewers to see what we have in store.” He said. His versatile presenting skills cut across a variety of shows and events. He has been the only male host of the AMVCA since 2013. He has also hosted the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant for five years in a row, Rhythm Unplugged for four years in a row, Comedy Club: Live in Lagos for four years in a row and The Voice Nigeria for two years in a row. He has appeared on other shows including Mnet’s Studio 53, Temptation Nigeria and Comedy Nites.  In the sixth season of Nigerian Idol, Kingdom Kroseide emerged winner after months of an intense musical contest involving over 10,000 hopefuls from across the country, and over 16 million votes recorded at the finale. Following the completion of the online and physical auditions last November, the countdown is officially on for the seventh season of the show, which premieres February 6, 2022, on DStv and GOtv. Headline sponsor of Nigerian Idol season 7 is Bigi Drinks and the co-headline sponsor is Binance.
  
In his remark, Director of Binance Africa, Emmanuel Babalola, said: “In a world of diversity, music scales through differences and unites people of contrasting backgrounds. As such, it is a thrilling opportunity to sponsor the popular musical competition, Nigerian Idol, as it is another step in our efforts to drive the mainstream adoption of crypto. Nigerian music continues to take centre stage globally and it’s never been a more exciting time to support this.”  