A former staff of Federal Medical Center (FMC), Owerri, Francis Chukwura, has been arrested by the Imo State Police Command for alleged involvement in ritual killing. A release signed by the command’s spokesman, Michael Abattam, said the 38-year-old suspect was arrested over an attempt to use a 14-year-old neighbour’s son, Henry Ekwos for suspected crime. The suspect hails from Umuime in Onitsha North LGA of Anambra State, but reside in Ubommiri in Mbaitoli Council of Imo State. According to the statement, the suspect dug a grave-size pit inside his room, lured the victim to his room and tried killing him with a machete but fortunately, the boy’s screaming on receiving several cuts alerted neighborhoods who invited the police, leading to the rescue of the victim. The release reads: “A case at hand, is the gory incident that occurred in Ubommiri in Mbaitoli LGA of Imo State, on the 06/01/2022 at about 1610 hours, where one Chukwura ‘M’ age 38 years, a native of Umuiem in Onitsha North Council  of Anambra State, but resident in Ubommiri in Mbaitoli LGA of Imo State, lured his neighbours son, Henry Ekwos ‘m’ aged 14 years into his room to help install WhatsApp application for him in his phone.	 “The unsuspecting boy innocently entered with him into his room where, he had already dug a grave-size pit. The boy, on seeing the grave-size pit in the room became suspicious and turned to run out, when Francis Chukwura picked up a machete and gave him several machete cuts on his head and body but, the young boy did not stop running and screaming for help. Luckily, passers-by who heard his scream, immediately alerted the police patrol team within the area. “On arrival at the scene, the police operatives were able to disarmed the assailant, rescued the victim with the assistance of some members of the community. He was immediately rushed to a nearby government hospital for urgent medical attention; while the apprehended suspect was taken to the station.” “On interrogation, the suspect, was discovered to be a dismissed staff of federal medical center (FMC) and presently has no visible means of livelihood. In his statement, he could not give a reasonable explanation why he attempted to kill the victim and for what purpose. On the excavated grave-size pit he dug in his room, he said the wife was aware and it was done to hurt his landlord for giving him quit notice.” It continued, “Consequent upon the suspect’s claim, the wife, Ezinne Anyanwu ‘f’ aged 32 years, a native of Ikeduru in Ikeduru Council of Imo State, was arrested. On interrogation, she claimed to have three children for the suspect out of wedlock. That the landlord did not give them quit notice, but they owe rent for some months. She claimed, he is fond of beating, her saying that, “she is bad luck to him”. “She further stated that, on the January 5  2022, she came back in the night from her hawking business, surprised to see the already dug grave-size pit in their room. And when she asked him about it, he said, “he is looking for the dollars he buried in the ground”. That she became suspicious and afraid, that he might have planned to use one of her children for ritual, hence, she held on to her three children without sleeping till the next day.” “In the morning of 06/01/2022, at about 0600 hours, he drove her and their children away. She left to her brother’s house and narrated her ordeal to him. That it was in the evening of that day, she received a phone call that, her husband has been arrested for attempting to kill a young boy for money ritual .	    “The victim is in the intensive care unit of a reputable government hospital and he is responding to treatment. However, investigation is ongoing and as soon as it is concluded, the suspect will be charged to court”. it added.