 US singer Britney Spears arrives for the premiere of Sony Pictures’ “Once Upon a Time… in Hollywood” at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, California on July 22, 2019. (Photo by VALERIE MACON / AFP) (Photo credit should read VALERIE MACON/AFP via Getty Images) In an update to the ongoing feud between Britney Spears and her sister Jamie Lynn Spears, the Toxic singer has sent her sister a cease-and-desist letter.   Britney’s lawyer, Mathew Rosengart, sent the singer’s younger sister a legal cease-and-desist letter on Tuesday regarding her new memoir, “Things I Should Have Said.” Rosengart, in his letter, described the book as “ill-timed” and that it makes “misleading or outrageous claims about her.” Despite Jamie Lynn’s claims that the book is not about her sister, Rosengart wrote, “She takes you at your word and we, therefore, demand that you cease and desist from referencing Britney derogatorily during your promotional campaign. If you fail to do so or defame her, Britney will be forced to consider and take all appropriate legal action.” Jamie Lynn’s memoir Things I should Have Said, released January 18, shares more details about her strained relationship with big sister Britney Spears. In her book, Jamie Lynn describes her sister’s behaviour growing up as “paranoid” and “erratic” at times. In a recent interview with Good Morning America, Jamie Lynn Spears said, “I’ve always been my sister’s biggest supporter.” She also noted that she had nothing to do with her sister’s 13-year conservatorship, which was terminated late last year. “When she needed help, I set up ways to do so, went out of my way to make sure that she had the contacts she needed to possibly go ahead and end this conservatorship and just end this all for our family. If it’s going to cause this much discord, why continue it? I even spoke to her legal team, … her previous legal team, and that did not end well in my favor.” “I did take the steps to help. How many times can I take the steps without … She has to walk through the door.” Since the memoir’s release, Grammy-award winning singer Britney has taken to social media multiple times to point out flaws in her sister’s recollection. Taking to Instagram, Britney wrote, “Jamie Lynn, I wasn’t strong enough to do what should have been done … slapped you and Mamma right across your f***ing faces !!!!!”  