 Knotless braids. Photo Pinterest Most have been in scenarios where we want to yank off the newly made hair from our scalp. Though it is easy to presume that the tighter your braids the longer they will last, such myths about hair should be thrown in the dustbin. This is because braids that are too tight can actually cause irreversible harm to your hair and such ideas as the tighter the better aims to hurt your scalp. The strain that causes the sore scalp can take a toll on your scalp and strands that consequently lead to hair breakage and shedding ultimately causing damage or loss of your edges (traction alopecia is real). A low-maintenance, long-lasting style may sound great enough to take away the hair troubles for a while but that is until it is no longer protecting your hair. Post-braiding you have a burning scalp, tender roots, and perhaps even small white bumps forming especially at the nape of your neck and other places that are strained. Is your scalp strained from access pulling of your hair to achieve long-lasting hair? And you have no clue on how to solve these issues, it is crucial you learn how to find relief here are easy stay-at-home tricks to help you manage and loosen tight braids in order to save your beautiful strands. 5 WAYS TO LOOSEN TIGHT BRAIDS Now that you know how tight braids can be damaging to hair health, consider these five actions tips below to help you master the art of taking care of too-tight braids properly. TIP #1. WEAR YOUR HAIR DOWN One mistake many jump at after making new braids is the need to pack the hair. Meanwhile, one of the easiest first steps you can do to alienate the feeling of tight braids is to actually wear your hair down. Wearing freshly done braids into a bun or an updo will extensively add to the amount of tension on your scalp and the level of soreness. To play it safe, leave your braids down until the roots loosen up a bit. TIP #2. REACH FOR MOISTURISERS Another way to loosen tight braids that are hardly considered is to rely on braid moisturizers or tension spray. This protective style essential keeps your woven masterpiece neat and moisturized and soothes a dry scalp. Many come with nozzles shaped to get products right to the roots; underneath tight box braids tight cornrows and even wigs. Make use of a light layer to avoid product buildup. If you don’t have a braid spray on hand, a leave-in conditioner will do as they deeply nurture curls and waves. It also works to moisturize without weighing your hair down. Massage a dime-sized amount of leave-in conditioner through your hair with your fingertips to loosen your braids. TIP #3: SCALP MASSAGE Pampering sessions are not reserved just for the sap, they can actually help loosen your braids and soothe a sore scalp. To get a scalp massage, you will need a scalp hair serum. Apply a few drops to your hands and gently rub the oil into your scalp with your fingertips to accomplish loose braids. TIP #4. GET YOUR HAIR WET WITH WARM WATER This is one tip hairstylists usually do before you leave given that tight braids can feel really heavy on your head; adding warm water into the mix will work magic. Use a wet washcloth with lukewarm water and lightly massage it touching your scalp or place a warm wet towel over your head and massage your scalp. Once that is done, dry your hair with a towel and your braids will feel looser. TIP #5. REMOVE YOUR BRAIDS It might not seem cost-effective but the quickest and safest thing to do to save your scalp the worry is to consider removing your braids. You will think about the money but it is on you to decide, are money and time more important than comfort? Swift measures before and after making your braids can prevent dealing with tight braids. Every time you come to a decision to get your hair braided, at all times be open with your stylist. If the braids are too tight, speak up at the moment any reasonable stylist will put your needs first for a flawless and painless braiding experience. And if you are always in the loop of too-tight braids, think about making a switch to a new professional. There are plenty of stylists that can give you the lovely pain-free braids you want without the ruckus and uneasiness.  