• ZLP backs Uzodimma over failure to name sponsors of terrorism Unknown gunmen, yesterday, invaded Dikenafai, Ideato South Police Station in Imo State and freed some detainees, who were rearrested by the vigilance group. The Guardian learnt that locally made explosives were also recovered, just as Chairman of the Interim Management Committee of the council, Bede Ikeaka, confirmed the incident on arrival at the station, confirming that six explosives were recovered. Police Public Relations Officer at the state command, Michael Abattam, said he would get details, but failed to do so before the story was filed. MEANWHILE, the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) has backed Governor Hope Uzodimma’s decision not to reveal the identity of sponsors of terrorism in the state. The ZLP, led by Dan Nwanyanwu, argued that the measure was in the best interest of the Imo people. Nwanyanwu, who was among the stakeholders that participated at the security meeting in Owerri, said those sponsoring terrorism would have fled if the governor yielded to pressure to name them. “For heeding past advice from the ZLP and others that to do so will amount to opening the window of escape for the culprits. Imo State and its people are not ready for anybody, involved in the looting of the state resources and sponsoring insecurity in the state to escape. This escape they would have achieved in the court. “Those, who are attacking the governor for not naming and shaming the culprits, are the same people involved and are condemning the governor because the route of escape has been blocked. “The governor, who was equally advised to allow the police to finish their investigation, should encourage the police to charge culprit to court without recourse to anybody. “Imo State people are aware of those who looted their treasury. They also know the sponsors of terrorism in the state and that fact cannot change,” he added. Nwanyanwu also commended the governor for making Imo State conducive and safe for indigenes, who visited the South East for the Christmas and New Year celebrations without incidents of harassment, kidnappings and killings. He enjoined the people to support their government so that the resources used in fighting insecurity in the state could be deployed to the provision of infrastructure, health, education and empowerment of youths in the state. 