 Candice Murley | GoFundMe TikTok celebrity, Candice Murley, popularly known as Candi, has died ‘unexpectedly’ at the age of 36. The TikTok star had two accounts, one with more than 20,000 followers and the other with more than 17,000, where she shared videos of herself dancing and cooking on her two TikTok accounts, one with more than 20,000 followers and the other with more than 17,000. Her sister Marsha McEvoy shared the news of her death in a GoFundMe, set up to help the family with funeral costs. Marsha McEvoy wrote: “We have received some news no one wants to hear, tonight we lost a huge part of our family, my sister Candice.” “This was very unexpected, and our hearts are torn apart. Candice was so full of life and always lived life her own way. She was full of energy and loved to dance & listen to her music; can’t forget about her Bingo, oh how she loved her Bingo.” “But more than anything in his world, she loved her Son & her family dearly, we also can’t forget her cat Stash. We just know she is dancing in the sky now, we all know how much she believed in Heaven, she is certainly there.” “Candice’s passing came as a massive shock to our family and we are not financially prepared for it. We ask that you please donate what you can to help give Candice the funeral she deserves and to assist our family in coping with this tragic loss. We thank everyone in advance.” Describing her sister, she wrote, “Most people knew her as Candi – famous for her TikToks.” “She had a fan base like no other, she was entertainment at her best, with her dancing and her cooking, and let’s not forget her scatter singing with her mic. Let’s now look back at all her videos and keep them as our keepsakes to keep us smiling while we deal with this loss, she will be missed terribly by many.” At the time of writing, the fundraiser has raised more than $17,000. An update on the fundraiser reads: ‘We are so overwhelmed with the support at this time, Candice was loved by so many and it certainly shows. Anything left over after her funeral expenses are taken care of, including her headstone, will be put in a trust for her Son Maxwell. Thank you for your donations and your shares.’