 Coffee latte art. Photo Phlearn It can be a great start to your day to have a cup of coffee before you begin with your activities. Coffee contains elements known to help rejuvenate the body and keep it energised. So, when the drowsy feeling sets-in in the morning, having a cup of coffee can help turn all that around and give you the boost to function actively. Your coffee doesn’t have to black and unsweetened to function as a healthy drink to the body, as many think. Your coffee can be sweetened with any sweetener of your choice; milk, sugar, or mint leaves, amongst others, and still offer the same health benefits as black coffee. What are the elements found in Coffee? Coffee contains over 1,000 chemical compounds, and each of their molecules and physiological effects are areas of active research in food chemistry. Just a coffee seed encompasses of a variety of chemical compounds. According to the analysis from IntechOpen, coffee contains 2-3% Cafeine, 3-5% tannins, 10-15% fixed oils and 13% proteins. The chemical ingredients found in coffee also include the following; However, some elements in coffee appear in a different form, depending on the state the coffee is in, brewed, or in its seed form. One of these elements is caffeine. In its seed form, caffeine is present as a salt of chlorogenic acid. More so, according to research, the percentage of some elements found in coffee is prone to change when the seeds are roasted and brewed. It can either decrease or increase. What does coffee do for the health? According to research, coffee functions as an antioxidant, which can help to eliminate damaging oxidising agents in the human body. Most importantly, it is a great source of magnesium and chromium, which assist in controlling blood sugar by enabling a proper usage of insulin. Over the years, research has also found that a moderate regular intake of coffee can keep the body healthy on various levels. It can help; How often should coffee be taken? Health practitioners suggest that 4-5 cups of coffee per day is which 400 milligram, is healthy and safe to take for an adult. However, this does not apply to every adult. The intake of coffee can be deadly to people that have high cholesterol, are sensitive to caffeine, pregnant or breastfeeding. Some schools of thought suggest that over 3 cups of coffee may be bad for anyone, although this is yet to be adequately proved. Notwithstanding, drinking coffee in moderation has proven to be safe and beneficial to the health of adults.  