The conversation around local refining in Nigeria is as old as the existing refineries offering little or no succor to the country. Nigeria’s four refineries, with a name-plate capacity of refining 445,000bpd of crude, were set up almost 30 years ago. Today, the refineries are a drain on taxpayers.
   
Notwithstanding efforts to rehabilitate them, Nigerians appeared to have given up on the plants.  Dangote Refinery operations and business strategy
According to a report by the Dangote Group, its refinery company can meet 100 per cent of the Nigerian requirement of all liquid products (gasoline, diesel, kerosene and aviation jet), and also, will have surplus of each of these products for export. It could also create a market for $11 billion yearly of Nigerian crude.
  
The report also noted that foreign exchange savings/earnings totaled $9.9 billion.
   
“The refinery can process Nigerian crudes as well as most of the African crudes, American crudes and some of the Middle Eastern crudes,” the report said.  Last weekend, President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, led President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Akinwunmi Adesina, and board members of the bank, on a tour of the refinery and fertiliser projects at Ibeju-Lekki.  “The wealth of a nation, according to me, is very clear that those countries that export raw materials will become poor and the countries that export value-added products eventually become rich, because they dominate the top of the value chain.”  “What has been the challenge for the country is that Nigeria imports a lot of petroleum products. We sell crude oil and we import refined products, it makes the prices high, it means it’s unstable, it is highly volatile and it also means that you lose a lot of foreign exchange. What this alone will do is to reverse that, Nigeria becomes self-sufficient in the production of all these things and then becomes a globally competitive player in this, in Africa and also in the world.”  “It is amazing that we are in Africa and in Nigeria and everything about this place is world class- world class business men, world class investments, world class infrastructure.
 
“This is like an industrial free gate for Africa for industrialization and this is very important in the context of the African continental free trade area. So I can see Nigeria being a dominant player through this investment that you have seen here with the Dangote group.”