Following reports of killings attributed to herdsmen and the tension that has enveloped Isiuzo Local Council of Enugu State, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has called for an emergency security meeting with leaders of the council in Enugu. According to a statement, yesterday, by the Governor’s Special Adviser on Information, Steve Oruruo, the council chairman, all security heads in the council, traditional rulers, presidents-general, the clergy and youth leaders are expected at the meeting taking place in Government House, today. Ugwuanyi is expected to use the meeting to fine-tune strategies on how to tackle growing insecurity in Isiuzo that had claimed lives, property and farmlands. Uneasy calm pervaded the council since December last year, after suspected herdsmen reportedly kidnapped, in a week, seven residents who returned for the 2021 Christmas and New Years celebrations. Five of the victims were said to have been abducted along the Eha-Amufu/Agu-Amede/Ikem road, even as residents of the area lamented that no week passed without a report of people being killed by bandits suspected to be herdsmen along the Eha-Amafu/Ikem road. Last week, the wife and child of the brother of a serving commissioner in the state were reportedly kidnapped in their home and taken to an unknown destination. Sources stated that some vigilante members, who went after the kidnappers, did not return alive. Also, on Wednesday, the state woke with reports of sack of five village farm settlements in Mgbuji Autonomous Community, Eha-Amafu, with killing of five persons, including children and women. The development came barely five days after three members of the state’s Neighbourhood Watch were killed while pursuing kidnappers to rescue the wife and 11-year-old daughter of the younger brother to the Enugu commissioner that were abducted on January 1. It was gathered that since Mgbuji had been visited with kidnap and killings, the residents no longer find the place safe and had, therefore, been escaping to other communities for safety. The Guardian further gathered that today’s security meeting followed reports that security operatives drafted to the area had refused to lead operations into the troubled communities and farm settlements. Policemen drawn from Ikem Division had allegedly asked members of the Neighbourhood Watch to lead operations to the farm settlements when they arrived the area on Wednesday, while the soldiers were withdrawn on getting to the local council secretariat for other emergency duties. Leaders of the area had cried that they had been abandoned in the hands of herdsmen, who kidnap, kill and rape women in the community. 