Online sports betting and casino gambling has been growing by leaps and bounds with every passing year. While physical casinos may be limited within a country due to national and local regulations, the vast number of online casinos and gambling sites are readily accessible to punters in most countries. Do Your Research
It is important to know which online gambling site to use, based on which country you live in. For example, a US person may look for both onshore and nearshore online betting options, depending on which state they live in. Someone living in the Asia Pacific region, by contrast, could look for reputed sites that are subject to the rules and regulations of the Malta Gaming Authority and/or the UK Gambling Commission. Let’s review the top countries in terms of their participation in online casino gambling. While the precise rankings may vary from year to year, most industry publications agree that the following five nations are usually among the top gambling enthusiasts in the world. We will also mention ways in which punters in each country can research the available betting options via reliable industry publications that grade online casinos through criteria such as reputation, lack of red flags, licenses, breadth of games, odds and promotions offered, payment processing and customer service – to name a few factors. Canada
In terms of the percentage of the population, Canada probably holds a clear edge over most other countries in the world, with an estimated 75% of its population regularly indulging in online casino gambling and the average citizen spending C$750 per year on the activity. Many of the reputed online casino sites will be licensed under the Canadian based Kahnawake Gaming Commission. There are way too many options for the uninitiated, so using a smart casino rating system like Bonus.ca may be one of the best ways to filter through the confusion and learn about the most reliable sites with the best deals. UK
Citizens of the United Kingdom have been passionate about sports betting and online casino gambling for a long time. Besides the high percentage of punters among the population, the quality of online betting sites that are licensed and can operate legitimately within the UK is easily verifiable, given the aforementioned UK Gambling Commission, which does an excellent job of setting and enforcing strict rules around this recreational activity. Best sites to find comparisons between online casinos and deals include Casino.org. USA
By sheer size (not a percentage of the population, but a raw number of gamblers), the US has the upper hand. Almost 70% of the total number of online gamblers in the world live in the US. Physical destinations such as Las Vegas and Atlantic City are world-famous. In recent years, many states such as Maryland, Arizona and Florida have begun the process of allowing both land-based and online gaming to be available within their states. However, even states that do not have such licensed online betting sites often allow their citizens to bet on offshore exchanges. No wonder over $35 billion is spent on online sports and casino betting in the US every year – a number that is more likely to grow than not. Many of the world’s premium online betting sites – such as FanDuel, BetMGM, DraftKings etc. have established presence in the US, so finding lists of the top casino sites is relatively simple. For offshore sites (often headquartered in Central America or the Caribbean), a site such as  Gamblingsites.net will provide reliable options. New Zealand
Online betting has expanded tremendously among the Kiwis in the past half-decade. Interestingly, while online gambling is legal and tax-free, the NZ government only allows its citizens to bet on sites that are owned and operated overseas. There is no dearth of options, and the best sites are those typically run under the authorities of gaming commissions in the UK, Malta or Gibraltar. To search for the most reliable sites for the best online casino gambling experience, you cannot do better than visiting KiwiGambler. Their exhaustive lists and rankings will steer you right. Japan
Japan is both an exception among Asian countries in terms of overcoming taboos about gambling as well as a standard-setter in terms of its vetting and oversight of those sites it does allow to operate. The combination of the high safety standards and an insatiable itch for online gambling has created a huge spend among the Japanese, to the tune of nearly $20 billion per year. Like the UK, chances are that the options available to the Japanese would be legit. To pick and choose between the best experiences, a site such as BestOnlineCasino can be utilized. Other High Volume Casino Gambling Countries
Besides the five countries mentioned above, some of the other nations known for online sports betting and casino gambling include Australia, Germany, Sweden, Finland, France, Spain and Italy, as well as some Far Eastern destinations such as Singapore. The Final Word
While many countries, or areas within jurisdictions, are legalizing land-based casinos and sports betting sites, the trend over the world has continued to be towards online gaming. Each of the countries mentioned above has hoards of gamblers who view online casinos and sports betting as a premier form of entertainment. In some cases, such as Canada, online gaming may be the main form of entertainment, period. The trend is here to stay, so do your research and find the right fit for you. 