The legendary Tai Solarin of blessed memory in an unusual new year’s wishes echoed the word “may your road be rough.” That happened several decades ago, and it was well analyzed over some time in Nigeria.
I could hardly find a better phrase to describe our pathways as Black people in the land that pride itself as the hobnob of immigration, a land of sophisticated multiculturalism. Though the intention of this article is not an inclination towards academic dissection of our plights as visible minorities, I will therefore keep it within the confine of the current issues. Sometimes, about ten months ago, an occurrence happened, and it was hopefully laid to rest. Somehow, the taxpayers financed Canada Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) took the delight to give new life into it. Perhaps, it is part of their social responsibilities to ensure that no issue is allowed to have an ‘untimely’ death. I will speak about CBC later. First, come with about the facts of the case and something that preceded it. A visible minority Alberta Cabinet Minister left his home on one cold morning within the precipice of a school environment. Of course, the school environment requires slower driving and some measure of tranquility. As we know, most cars or trucks in Canada come with factory-fitted Bluetooth, that communicating when commuting is easy as it comes. There was no overspeeding, and school was not in session, being a weekend, so the need for tranquility is not seriously high. He was suddenly pulled over by a policeman, who ‘emphatically’ charged him for ‘distracted’ driving. The distraction was that he was driving with his phone on hand. Perhaps, the Minister’s voice was ‘typically’ loud as Black people are stereotyped as loud talkers. All pleas that his phone was inside his winter jacket fell to deaf ears. He was ticketed. He was shocked beyond words. As Justice Minister, he did not contest further with the Police, and he allowed him to do his ‘job’ without interference. He reached out to his phone slightly afterward to the Police Chief to intimate him how he was pulled over in a manner that looked too suspicious to overlook. A few days before the incident that happened few meters from his home, the Minister has expressed displeasure about an occurrence in the Southern city of Lethbridge. In that incident, facts emerged about how New Democratic Party (NDP) MLA Shannon Phillips, a former Cabinet Minister under the current opposition, has been subjected to ‘illegal’ surveillance by the Lethbridge Police Service (LPS). The Justice Minister felt that was an unacceptable and unnecessary infringement on the privacy of the MLA Shannon Phillips. He subtly asked LPS to put its house in order. Two important things here. The MLA in Lethbridge belongs to the opposition party. So, Mr. Madu’s intervention was devoid of partisanship. Second, Shannon is a person of color, an amalgam of expression to lump all non-whites into the same box. Without equivocation, we know that such occurrences will hardly happen to an ordinary White person, let alone a ‘visible’ community member. By the way, Shannon was a former Environmental Minister under NDP. Like a prophet who foresaw the future, Madu was pulled over so close to his abode that he became apprehensive if he was also under illegal surveillance by the Police. He felt it was better to call the Police Chief for clarification with that thought. He did that and never even mentioned the issue of the ticket. The Police Chief confirmed this in his response to CBC. He promptly paid for the ticket. Usually, as any other citizen, he has the option to protest the ticket in Court. He did not take that route. Better judgment would have told him that he would be wrongly judged if he had approached the Court as Justice Minister for a mere ticket of $300. He paid and did not even discuss that with the Police Chief. Could this be a case of the Witch crying the previous day and the child’s death today? Was he pulled over as solidary with LPS, whom he has told there may be consequences for their actions against MLA Shannon? Back to CBC
As earlier stated, CBC is an organization funded by the taxpayers of entire Canada. However, the almost undeniable perception of its ultra-left leaning and its not-so-impressive gesture towards Alberta in general exists. It seems to delight more in anything negative about Alberta. Of course, its overwhelming love for the Black community across Canada is notable. It is delightful to note that despite its extensive network, one may not need the two hands to finger-count the number of ‘visible’ Black people in its employment across Canada.
Therefore, fitting into the quadruple exposure as a Conservative Visible Black Minister, it is not surprising that CBC will not remember that he was pulled over a few meters to his home. By emphasizing the school zone, it fits into the narratives of excesses on the part of the Minister who may be perceived not to be different from his kind, who are known to be loud and will not observe the tranquility expected of a school environment. I do not even want to mention that an average Police officer should ordinarily not mistake the face of a cabinet minister in a crowd, let alone having a one-to-one situation. Also, there is the possibility of a warning for a first offender. Back to the Lethbridge case. Shannon is in the opposition party now. Ironically, Shannon’s party calls for Madu’s resignation over the issue. They are not even concerned that he did not in any way try to obstruct justice or seek any preferential treatment. Does it mean a cabinet minister cannot be innocent? Is he presumed guilty until proved otherwise? Would the narrative have been different if he had called the Police Chief after paying the fine? Let us reflect on these questions.
Undoubtedly, our pathways as Black people or the umbrella people of color are indeed very rough. It does not even seem it is getting better any time soon. We should brace up for the future. To the Premier, will you joyfully throw away the baby with the bathwater? Will the response be the same if it had happened to another member of the Cabinet?
As we await the outcome of the investigation, ponder on some questions raised here. Nevertheless, note that as Black people, we are ‘Madus,’ and our road is very rough!
• Oluwadele, Ph.D., is a Chartered Accountant, author, and Public Policy Scholar based in Canada. Email: bolutife.oluwadele@gmail.com 