• $20,000 for each group stage goal, $50,000 for knockout win
• $250,000 for winning trophy For their brilliant performance in the group stage of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nation in Cameroun, an appreciative Nigeria has started raining dollars on Super Eagles players and officials. The team ended the group stage of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations with a 100 per cent record, winning all their matches to end the phase on nine points. Nigeria defeated Egypt 1-0, beat Sudan 3-1 and overwhelmed Guinea Bissau 2-0. Shortly before Super Eagles’ last group game against Guinea Bissau on Wednesday, a delegation of CACOVID, the group saddled with the responsibility of fighting COVID-19 in Nigeria, paid a surprise visit on the team’s camp with a message from an appreciative country. Led by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, CACOVID announced cash rewards to the team for their efforts so far and for subsequent games. Introducing the CACOVID delegation to the Super Eagles, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Amaju Pinnick, Said: “I have a very important personality in our midst, who is driving a process for CACOVID, the team that has been funding everything about combating COVID-19 in Nigeria. “This same team has brought what they put to bear in the COVID-19 challenge to football because they know that many Nigerians are excited by your success on and off the pitch so far. “CACOVID sent him to come and talk to you and motivate you with everything you need to hear because we need a rejuvenation in our country… we need jubilation in our country. “We are not taking anybody for granted. We want to thank your leadership, Ahmed and Ekong, because you have displayed so much patriotism; there has not been report of indiscipline in the camp and we are happy for that.” Before announcing the monetary reward to the Eagles, Emefiele told the team that Nigerians are elated that the country’s football is coming alive again, adding that it is exciting to see young men working hard to lift the country to glory. He added: “We know we have not done everything we should for you and in spite of this, you have continued to work hard for success. “I am here with a message from CACOVID, which is a coalition of private sector companies set up to fight COVID-19 in Nigeria. And because it is a coalition of private sector companies, led by Alhaji Aliko Dangote and I, we have a message, which is, for every goal scored in the group stage, the team will receive the naira equivalent of $20, 000. So far, you have earned for yourself the naira equivalent of $80,000. “CACOVID has asked me to raise the ante, and so, every goal in the second round comes with the naira equivalent of $50,000. “I am sure you all know that football, among all games, is a unifying game that brings the country together. I can assure you that the Nigerian government and the private sector will reward you handsomely.” Emefiele also informed the team that billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola, who is also a member of CACOVID, “has asked me to tell you that if you lift the trophy, he has the naira equivalent of $250, 000 for you as reward.” He added: “Allen Onyema came here and made a promise of N50 million if you win the trophy. You should take playing for Nigeria as a service to your nation because everything is being done by government to make everybody happy, particularly the youth.” 