SIR: It was very rampant towards the end of 2021, how many ladies became victims of rituals by men of no scruples; often their boyfriends or unknown men who spuriously invited them over to use what they have to get what they want. They are regarded as the “hookup” guys, and in the end, the ladies become the proverbial sacrificial lambs they slaughtered to renew their wealth. Why are ladies often the victims for money rituals? The answer is because most of them want to live a luxurious life without working. The popular slang in town now is “stay with your broke boyfriend” which to me is exasperating. It seems like an advice, but I see it as a poor outpour of the feeble minds. Instead, ladies need advice on determination, commitment and hard work. But since ladies of nowadays want to harvest from a farm that has not even a drop of their sweat, so I can’t blame the advisers. All Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), most especially those of female gender based, should not only fight against indiscrimination against women, but also enlighten, educate and sensitise them on how to be independent; on how to think of lucrative businesses, get something doing and eradicate the mindset of surviving through dirty means. Ladies should have belief in themselves that they can make it, and save themselves from pseudo love. In as much as you’re not married, legally, traditionally or religiously, your responsibilities are still on your parents and not any friend (boyfriend). Verily, a dog destined to wander off, will have no hears to the hunters whistle. Covetousness has eaten deep in their hearts. When we pray for God protection, let us not walk at the tip side of a fire. Also governments have crucial role to play in this. Your actions and rewards for the graduate are always discouraging. Graduates have become a laughing stock to their friends who see school as scam and have made it through cybercrime. Encourage education, make it cheap if not free. Let the reward for being a graduate be lucrative, if they all can’t get employed, empower as many as you can. I believe that if education is lucrative, easy and cheap, we can eradicate this “Yahoo Yahoo” of a thing. It is saddening and heartbreaking seeing the world becoming a gory place, where young adult sees rituals as the only option, rather than hard work and without a care of the consequences, to making money. We don’t feel secure even with our best friends. The world we live in now has capsized; lust for money has overthrown belief. We should embrace and protect each other, overtly or covertly. Let us be our brothers’ keepers; you can’t have beyond what has been destined for you. I hope that the world will be a better place to live. 
AbdulQudus Lekan Tajudeen.