Dowen College has announced the stepping down of the founding members of the board of governors, including its chairman and founder Dr O. Olumide Phillips. Tomi Borisade in a statement for Dowen College Board of Governors said the executives “have chosen to retire and pass the baton of change to a new generation of seasoned professionals who will run with the vision, leadership passion, commitment and values they have worked rigorously to establish.” “This new chapter promises to be one of collective re-dedication to excellence,” Borisade said in the statement. “We want our students to always be very proud of their school and our community to be assured of our best intentions at all times.” Borisade disclosed that their retirement was necessary as Dowen College is currently reviewing its processes. The announcement came weeks after the school was cleared of being culpable in the death of one of its students Slyvester Oromoni. While Sylvester’s family have claimed that he was killed by fellow students who allegedly assaulted him till his death, the school has consistently denied such claims. The office of public prosecution in Lagos State also exonerated three students and a teacher that were arrested by the police in connection to Slyvester’s death. Dowen College Board of Governors said it prays “never experience such an unfortunate incident in our community again” as “Slyvester’s demise has left all of us at Dowen College deeply saddened.” The school authority, however, said its new processes “will not hesitate to relieve anyone responsible for administrative lapses in the duties of their positions. We are keen on ensuring that this type of situation never arises again. “We will implement infrastructural changes to the hostels and school facilities to enhance safety and oversight within the school premises. “We have worked on enhancing our safeguarding, monitoring processes and policies to ensure better oversight functions within the school. We are also reviewing our policies with our parents, staff and students to ensure strict compliance and best practices are adhered to going forward.” 