• Stakeholders agree to review 18 years after the policy was pegged at N5,000
• Inflation jerks costs of vehicle repairs – Industry operators Eighteen years after the initial review of third-party insurance to N5,000, motorists in the country may have to gear up for another review, The Guardian has gathered. An inside source said the premium may rise to N7,500 before the end of the first quarter of this year, owing to rising costs of vehicle repairs.  The Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) also confirmed that only about three million vehicles out of 13 million on Nigerian roads are insured, indicating that about 77 per cent are uninsured. NIA also lamented that the sector can generate over N50 billion premium income annually if all vehicles have genuine insurance. Accordingly, NIA said it is collaborating with Lagos, Kaduna, Niger, Kogi, and Ogun state governments on enforcement of motor insurance through their licensing offices. Chairman of NIA, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, said the industry is embittered about what it is losing to insurance racketeers and non-insurance of vehicles. Musa said: “We are working closely with the state vehicle inspection service on enforcement of Third Party Motor Insurance in the states. “Out of the estimated 13 million vehicles in Nigeria, only about 2,939,767 Third Party Motor policies are in force as of April 2021,” he noted. Musa, who is also the Group Managing Director/CEO of Cornerstone Insurance Plc, disclosed that the Association is partnering the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) and the police to give them access to the Nigerian Insurance Industry Portal (NIIP), such that when a vehicle is apprehended, they can ascertain if such vehicle carries fake or genuine insurance certificate.
  
The third-party vehicle insurance comes at a fixed price of N5,000 for privately used saloons and SUVs, while commercially-used vehicles are charged N7,500.  “Issues around enforcement of the Brown Card and claims that have accrued to people who have it were also discussed extensively,” she said. Beyond the review, Nwachukwu said the committee had an interaction with representatives from ECOWAS on how it will work in the Nigerian market to highlight some key buckets of risks that would be used to measure insurance firms when it visits for the Risk-Based Supervision (RBS). She listed the risks as Credit, liquidity, market, insurance, operational, legal regulatory, compliance and strategic risks.
 
The Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, following reactivation of the Insurers Committee, had directed it to determine the adequacy of the current premium for the third-party motor insurance policy.  Stakeholders in the insurance industry had earlier in December disclosed that the Third Party Motor Insurance policy would be reviewed in January, barring a last-minute shift in policy, after the tacit nod given by NIA and NAICOM. They said the committee, headed by Nwachukwu, working on the review had concluded and submitted its report to the regulator in November, with the expectation that by January 1, 2022, the regulator would have announced the new price. Recall that in July 2021, NAICOM and insurance operators decided to review upward the current insurance premium paid by motorists to obtain compulsory third party insurance after a stakeholder meeting in Lagos, the first after the COVID-19 lockdown. 