 Romantic Date. Black Man Kissing Woman’s Hand Dining In Restaurant. Couple Of Lovers Celebrating Valentine’s Day. The season of love is fast approaching.   Loved by many all over the world, Valentine’s Day is the perfect time to show your partner just how much you care about her. For many lovers, February 14 is more than just the gift, but the message behind the gifts. The woman in your life deserves the best and this time, take some time out to put more thoughts into the gifts you pick out for her. Nobody says you shouldn’t schedule a flower delivery or send a chocolate gift box, but let’s switch this up a little by adding a very thoughtful gift into the mix. Don’t know what? Here are seven thoughtful Valentine’s Day gift ideas to tell your partner just how much you love her. 7 Thoughtful Valentine’s Day Gift Ideas For Her Whatever gift ideas we recommend, remember that no one knows your partner better than you, and these are only recommendations to help you make better choices. You don’t have to use everything word for word, lol! Nothing screams I love you more than the tiny details. Remind your partner of all the reasons you’re still in love with her by telling her what makes her stand out. Remember to be very detailed; the smallest details matter, from the smell of her shampoo to how she rubs her forehead while thinking or nibbles on every bite of food thoughtfully before swallowing. Whatever it is you think that makes her extraordinary should be included in the journal. Make it even more special by DIYing your own craft book; she’s no doubt going to love it. Create your fun calendar with dates and special events you could do as a couple. Valentine’s Day doesn’t have to end on the 15th, and date nights should not be limited to special occasions. Plan your couple time together, including all the fun stuff you like to do together. Oh! And planning date nights in advance would save you the stress of having to think up a new plan every weekend. You also shouldn’t feel pressured when creating your calendar; add romantic stuff like couple massages, dinner or more regular stuff like paintballing. Another great way to express affection is to remove inconveniences, some of which might be bills. Cut your partner some slack by paying off some of her subscriptions for the quarter or year. Whether it’s her WIFI subscription, streaming, gym subscription or food plan. Trust us; she’d love the break. Instead of buying her flowers that’ll wither away after some time, get her a mini garden. Now, of course, for this to be the perfect gift, your partner has to be a plant lover. Get a mini plant box and fill it with seeds of plants she loves. Nothing says I listen more than making her the plant mom she always wanted to be, lol. Have you walked down the beauty aisle recently? Trust me; you’d be shocked how much beauty products cost now. In the weeks leading up to Valentine, get hints from your partner on what skincare and makeup products she uses for an idea on what to get. Make sure to pay close attention to the shades where necessary. While you’re planning gifts for just her, you should also get gifts for the both of you. Set up a bucket list of things you’d like to do together with her input, of course, and dedicate the rest of the year to scratching them off. Whoever said books aren’t a great gift must not have met a bookworm. Every book lover would love a new set of books o add to their collection. If you’re not sure what books they’d like, you can always buy them a subscription plan or a Kindle. Valentine’s Day is a wonderful season of love; whatever gift ideas you choose, remember it’s the thought that counts and your partner would surely love it.