Download logo The Ministry of Health would like to inform the Nation that the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine can now be taken as a booster dose.  This follows the completion of standard health research that has established that thevaccine can be safely and effectively used as a booster dose. This means that, in Eswatini, all three currently available approved vaccines, AstraZeneca, Johnson and Johnson as well as Pfizer can now be administered as booster doses. COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Guidance:  IF RECEIVED ASTRAZENECA IF RECEIVED JOHNSON AND JOHNSON IF RECEIVED PFIZER-BIONTECH OR MODERNA Booster or additional dose should be given to: Ages 18 years and older. Ages 18 years and older. Ages 12 years and older. When to get a booster: At least 6 months after completing primary COVID-19  vaccination series. For the elderly the booster may be given at 3 months after completing your primary COVID-19 vaccination series. At least 2 months after the primary shot. At least 6 months after completing primary COVID-19 vaccination series. For the elderly the booster may be given at 3 months after completing primary COVID-19 vaccination series.    Which booster should be given? Preferably AstraZeneca or any of the COVID-19 vaccines authorised in Eswatini can be used in a situation of interrupted supply. Any of the COVID- 19 vaccines available in Eswatini (Pfizer-BioNTech or AstraZeneca). Preferably Pfizer- BioNTech or any of the COVID-19 vaccines authorised in Eswatini can be used in a situation of interrupted supply.  We continue to encourage the nation to get vaccinated against COVID-19. All the vaccines are safe and will help us avoid a potential fifth wave. Those who have been vaccinated are encouraged to get their booster shots for durable protection. COVID-19 vaccination is open to all people living in Eswatini, twelve (12) years and above. People are expected to register for vaccination using the COVID-19 Vaccination Registration link www.eswat inihealth.org. However, eligible individuals who have not managed to pre-register for vaccination can still register on site during the vaccination process. Vaccination sites in Eswatini can be found via this link: eswatinihealth.org/schedule-hcw. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ministry of Health, Government of the Kingdom of Eswatini.