With the 2023 general elections fast approaching, one name that is on the tongues of residents of Ogun Central Senatorial District in Ogun State is Olumide Aderinokun. This is simply because of impact of his contributions to lives of the people. Where many might not have given Aderinokun a chance to show his commitment for Ogun State development, the astute businessman with interest in property development, farming and high technology, has surpassed expectations with several projects. And his good deeds continue to echo a message of hope to people in the face of yearnings for development projects from their representatives in governments. Towards the end of 2021, for instance, Aderinokun showed his love for the people when he returned from a business trip and immediately paid a solidarity visit to Lafenwa market in Abeokuta North local council area after the fire incident that razed several shops. During that visit, the Owu chief promised to give 50 affected traders some financial aid. And it was fulfilled within a week. The Akinruyiwa of Owu Kingdom is also the co-founder of Olumide and Stephanie Aderinokun Foundation, a non-governmental organisation focused on people across the six local council areas in Ogun Central Senatorial District. In the coming months, Aderinokun has pledged to continue proving his capability and belief in a people-oriented style of leadership and representation. Aderinokun is not new to the political scene in Ogun State and his contributions have cut across several sectors since 2011 when he started playing active role in politics. He previously vied for the Peoples Democratic Party ticket to represent Abeokuta North/Obafemi Owode/Odeda Federal constituency in the House of Representatives on two occasions.	  Undeterred by his initial loss, Aderinokun made a second attempt four years later and it ended in victory at the PDP primaries. However, internal party crisis in 2019 ended the quest even before the election date. With eyes set on the Ogun Central Senatorial seat, his philanthropic ventures since 2020 has proven that there is huge repository of untapped talents in Obafemi-Owode, Abeokuta South, Abeokuta North, Ewekoro, Ifo and Odeda local council areas. And in comparison to Chief MKO Abiola, Aderinokun’s benevolence to humanity might be a decisive factor in Ogun Central come 2023.