Before the commencement of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroun, former Super Eagles Skipper, Austin Jay Jay Okocha, predicted that many upsets would be recorded in the tournament. Okocha, one of the most-gifted footballers the world has ever seen, had told The Guardian in Lagos shortly before he departed for South Africa, where he currently serves as one of the pundits for the AFCON, that the usual elements of surprises would happen in tournament. “This is African football and people should expect big upsets, particularly in the group stages of the tournament,” Jay Jay told The Guardian. With the group stage of the tournament yet to be concluded, Okocha’s prediction have started coming to reality. Perhaps, one of the biggest upsets recorded so far in Cameroun is the 1-0 defeat of defending champions, Algeria, by Equatorial Guinea. Formbook was torn to shreds on Sunday at the Japoma Stadium in Douala, as Equatorial Guinea, a small country, against all expectations, defeated Algeria, who are rated the best African team at the moment. The defeat not only ended Algeria’s 35-match unbeaten streak, it also put the cup’s defending champions on the brink of elimination. Algeria have just one point in the competition courtesy of a goalless draw with equally unfancied Sierra Leone in their opening match. The North African giants remain without a single goal so far in the tournament despite the array of stars they parade. With early elimination now starring Algeria in the face, they now have a zero option in their last group match on Thursday when they confront group leaders, Cote d’Ivoire. Having reached the quarterfinals in 2012 and ending in fourth place in 2015 (both at home), Nzalang Nacional, as Equatorial Guinea is called, have suddenly become one of the most sought-after teams in the tournament. Equatorial Guinea, the underdogs, who are ranked 114th in the world, became the first side to beat Algeria since Benin Republic did so back in October 2018. Another upset was recorded on Sunday in Douala, this time, Sierra Leone, who showed character and determination, as they fought back to hold one of the favourite teams in the tournament, the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire to a 2-2 in a Group E match. Sierra Leone made a return to the AFCON after 26 years of absence. The Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire were only two minutes away from bagging maximum points, but the Leone Stars capitalised on goalkeeper Badra Ali Sangare’s error and made it 2-2 through substitute, Alhaji Kamara, at the Japoma Stadium in Douala. The 1992 and 2015 AFCON champions, Cote d’Ivoire, will now face the wounded Algerian side in their last group match, which the defending champions must win to remain in the tournament. Cote d’Ivoire are top of the Group with four points, while Sierra Leone are second on two points. Before the commencement of second group games, the victory by the Super Eagles of Nigeria against the Pharaohs of Egypt in Garoua was seen as one of the upsets of the tournament. 