Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the alleged plan of former Governor Emeka Ihedioha to defect to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) as a lie perpetrated by detractors. It also cautioned against misleading members of the public with fake news and urged the people to be mindful of attempts by some desperate politicians to continually undermine the peace, unity and progress of the state. State Publicity Secretary of the party, Emenike Nmeregini, who stated this in a statement, also restated the party’s commitment to reclaiming power in the 2023 governorship elections. “We have been inundated with calls by concerned people of Imo State over rumours being peddled by enemies of Imo State purporting that Hon. Emeka Ihedioha was planning to defect to APGA to contest the 2023 governorship election. “Our party did not initially consider a disclaimer, necessary, because Ihedioha is not known to jump from party to party. He is known and has indeed remained a consequential leader, consistent major financier, loyal and dedicated member and leader of PDP, which he helped to found in 1998. “For emphasis, there is no other truly democratic party in Nigeria and in Imo State in particular than the PDP. We are not unaware of the increasing desperation of agents of darkness, who are afraid of the imminent reclaiming of our stolen mandate in 2023,” the statement reads. The party insisted that it was incontrovertible that Ihedioha remained a strong brand in the party and that it was proud of his achievements of the rebuild Imo administration for which the party was being pressured by the people of Imo State across party lines to recover their stolen mandate and continue the rebuilding process. “We caution mischief makers, agents of darkness, blackmailers and enemies of Imo State, Governor Hope Uzodimma and his All Progressives Congress (APC) cohorts, to look elsewhere and stop the fake news. Imo people are wiser and remain vigilant in the face of other devious tactics of the enemies,” it added.