Ebonyi State government has explained that the state command of Ebubeagu Security outfit was not created for political purposes, stressing that the Governor, Chief Dave Umahi, deserves commendation for fulfilling his promise to set up the outfit to protect lives and property. The Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Barrister Orji Uchenna Orji, explained that despite attempts by disgruntled elements to politicise the issue of security in the state, Umahi rode on the resolutions of the five Southeast state governors to establish the Ebonyi State Command of Ebubeagu. It would be recalled that while inaugurating the security outfit last year, Umahi disclosed that the state command comprises eight commanders and 120 officers, stressing that the Ebubeagu personnel would be remunerated even as he declared their appointment would be pensionable. The governor noted that though the various state governments in Southeast had vigilantes and neighbourhood watches, the governors came together after several strategy meetings in Enugu, to set up a joint security outfit to be called Ebubeagu. He stated: “We brain stormed and set up a committee headed by General Obi Umahi (retd), which had since rounded off their assignment. We appreciate the wonderful cooperation they offered.” Ebonyi was the second to sign into law the bill for the establishment of Ebubeagu after Imo State. “Its function is to assist the police in carrying out lawful activities. It is not an alternate police force. They are to operate in utter obedience to the police force. No altercation. Don’t fight or disobey the police.” Speaking with The Guardian against the backdrop of insinuation by opposition politicians that the security outfit was being used to pursue political ends, Orji asserted that contrary to those fears, Umahi made it clear that the establishment of the Ebubeagu security outfit was not politically motivated. “The governor went the extra mile to enjoin those kicking against the security outfit to feel free to challenge the law in court,” the Information commission said. While maintaining that Umahi abided by promises and covenants, Orji declared: “He does not forget or forego any social contract he has with the electorate or any policy direction he is committed to. He is committed to the cause of Southeast geopolitical zone and the nation. “Governor Umahi, who is also Chairman of South East Governors’ Forum inaugurated South East Ebubeagu Security Outfit Ebonyi, State Command. Recall that recently in Enugu, South East Governors and South East leaders agreed to launch Ebubeagu Security Outfit in all the states of the zone before the end of 2021. “Our dear performing governor did not fail in his promise. He set up thousands of officials of Ebubeagu Security Outfit, who were trained by the conventional security outfits. Today Ebonyi State is a safe haven for businesses. “Those that were in Ebonyi State during the Christmas season will testify to the calm social atmosphere of the entire nooks and crannies of the state. Our people, including agitators now have perfect understanding of the need for peace and order in view of the unprecedented achievements attained by our dear governor, which is for the ultimate good of Ebonyi people and Nigerians at large.” 