• Journalists Raise Eyebrows Over Positive COVID-19 Results By Cameroun’s Opponents The Indomitable Lions of Cameroun have vowed not to look back as they face Gambia today in one of the quarterfinal matches at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations. The game will hold at Stade de Japoma in Douala. The Camerounians were moved from Yaounde, the country’s capital, to Douala after a deadly stampede at the Olembe Stadium, which killed about eight fans during their match against Comoros. Speaking with journalists yesterday, captain of the Indomitable Lions, Vincent Abubakar, said they will approach today’s match the same way they have been operating since the commencement of the tournament. “We are not going to look back,” Abubakar said. “We assure our people that we will lift this trophy, and our focus is still the same way. We respect all our opponents, including Gambia.” On their part, Gambia players and officials say they are ready to shock Cameroun. Meanwhile, sports journalists covering the tournament have raised eyebrows over the rate players of teams billed to face Cameroun fail COVID-19 test. When the Indomitable Lions filed out against Burkina Faso in their first Group match, six Burkinabe players tested positive, but there was none on the side of Cameroun. The second group match between the Indomitable Lions and Ethiopia raised so much concern. On the eve of the game, eight Ethiopian players tested positive for COVID-19 but there was none on the side of Cameroun. It was the same situation when Cameroun clashed with Cape Verde. While two players of Cape Verde tested positive, there was none on the side of Cameroun.
 
Then came the biggest of it all, when the host nation played debutants, Comoros, in the knockout round of 16. A total of 12 Comoros players tested positive, and there was none on the side of Cameroun. Cameroun will face Gambia this evening in a battle for semifinal ticket, and there is apprehension in the air. At a pre-match press conference in Douala yesterday, many questions were raised by visiting journalists on why opponents of Cameroun usually suffer COVID-19 problem. But there were no immediate answer. While Cameroun take on Gambia at 5.00 pm in Douala, Burkina-Faso will trade tackles with Tunisia at 8.00 p.m. in Garoua.
Tomorrow will witness one of the biggest clashes in the quarterfinals, the battle of two North Africans between the Pharaohs of Egypt and Atlas Lions of Morocco. It will hold at 5.00 pm, just as Senegal take on Equatorial Guinea at 8.00 p.m.