• Gov, Oloja, others eulogise UNILAG VC Ogindipe
The National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved two more universities for Lagos State, according to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Speaking at the public presentation of a book titled, Oluwatoyin Temitayo Ogundipe @60: Audacity of Resilience, at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), on Tuesday, the governor noted that the new institutions would expand access to higher education in the state. The work was put together by a committee of friends of the vice chancellor. Sanwo-Olu stated that the two existing universities in the state were not enough to accommodate the growing number of youths seeking higher education. He stressed that education remains the only potent weapon to eradicate poverty and related limitations. According to him, there is also need to groom future leaders, as well as develop a curriculum that speaks to the needs of tomorrow. The governor said the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, would henceforth become University of Science and Technology, while Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education is merging with Michael Otedola College of Primary Education to become University of Education. On the book, Sanwo-Olu described it as a must read by leaders and future leaders, observing that it told the story of how education, tenacity and focus conquered limitations. He said: “I want to commend the vice chancellor of this university for what he has done in this institution. The records are there for all to see. He has gone through a lot, but that did not stop him from attaining set goals. “He came from a very humble background but,  did not allow it limit him. For our young ones seated here, this book should inspire you to break all bounds and launch out to achieve your goals in life. Do not allow what you face today to limit your aspiration in life. “It is not how you were born, not where you find yourself, but how well you are able to navigate your way out from any challenge life may throw at you.” The book reviewer and Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of The Guardian, Martins Oloja, said the publication, which is in five parts, comprised 340 pages with 16 chapters. He submitted that it was well written and edited by academics. Oloja recommended the book for all, especially those in leadership positions, as well as future leaders. Also speaking, the editorial team lead, Prof. Obinna Chukwu, said the book sampled opinions of people whose lives Ogundipe had impacted, noting that the true essence of leadership was in the impact any man had on humanity, people, institution and environment. “All said, the committee of friends looked at him, from the cradle through his career trajectory and ascension to the 11th floor of the Senate building as UNILAG’s 12th vice chancellor. “This is not forgetting the turbulent weather, through which his flight is cruising; saw him as the audacious and resilient, thus this book,” he said. Chukwu, who doubles as the tertiary institution’s Deputy Vice Chancellor, (Management Services), expressed hope that the celebrant’s odyssey would inspire readers to be focused, determined, steadfast, audacious and resilient, while keeping their eyes on the ball. In his remarks, Ogundipe lauded the editorial team for their efforts in putting the book together. He assured of his determination to continue contributing his quota to national development for the betterment of mankind. 