Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, has blamed the police for foiling the proposed partnership that was aimed at securing Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Adams said growing incidents of kidnapping and killings along the Expressway couldn’t have occurred had the police authorities allowed the partnership arrangement with Southwest Security Stakeholders Group (SSSG), to sail through. Adams made this known yesterday while reacting to report of attacks on travellers by bandits on the axis.
Adams, who is the convener of the SSSG added that the  local security outfit had, in a letter written to the police in September last year, requested for a partnership to join in the normal patrol routine along Lagos-Ibadan Express Way  to assist the state security agents. According to him, “The letter was in response to the growing spate of insecurity along the road, which remains a major road in the region. “The reason for the request is to use our strength and network to secure the Express-way. “The idea of seeking partnership with the police came up after series of meetings with leaders and stakeholders of the Southwest Security Stakeholders Group to assist the police in securing the Southwest. “The letter dated September 22,2021 was addressed to the commissioners of police, security Advisers, Director of State Security Services (DSS) and other security operatives in Lagos, Ogun and Oyo.” Adams said the group’s effort to complement the police was done in good faith, and it was targeted at nipping the activities of the bandits in the bud. “Given my position as the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, I have received many calls from people over the recent attacks on Lagos-Ibadan Express way. “Our intention as a security outfit is to seek partnership with the police, especially, in Lagos, Ogun and Oyo to build a team that is formidable enough to take care of the security challenges along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway way. “The road has become volatile for travellers, and I think there is need for urgent intervention. That is why we consider it very important that there should be synergy between the police and other security outfits in Southwest. “And SSSG, with about 10 Security groups coming together has the strength and the spread to support the police in making sure that the spate of insecurity in the southwest is reduced drastically.” 