Muslim Association of Nigeria has paid tribute to one of its astute members, Alhaji Abdulateef Salako, who died on December 30, 2021, at the age of 87. Salako  The association described him as a pillar of support, a charismatic leader, an astute administrator, a noble personality, a visionary and indeed a colossus. The tribute is contained in a condolence message made available by the Publicity Secretary of the association, Hon. Mudrakat Ajibona to The Guardian. The National President of the association, Alhaji Tajudeen Ojikutu, said Salako would be remembered for his support towards the propagation of Islam and the association. “ The Muslim Association of Nigeria has lost another pillar of support, charismatic leader, an astute administrator, a noble personality, a visionary and indeed a colossus. “ Alhaji Abdulateef Olayinka Salako joined the Muslim Association of Nigeria (MAN) in 1976, at the time when personalities like Late Professor Aliu Babatunde Fafunwa (1st National Presidents) supported by Late Alhaji Yunis Bashorun, late Alhaji Shamsideen Akanji Dawodu, Late Hon. Sodiq Anwo Sanusi, late Hon. Justice Bolarinwa Tijanni Babalakin and Baba Adinni Of Lagos, Shekh Abdul Hafeez Abou was firmly consolidating the founding of the Association as an Elite Islamic Society, when there was a need for a mouthpiece for the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria. “Alhaji Abdulateef Olayinka Salako was the captain of the textile industry and brought his massive experience to bear. He rose doggedly to become the chairman of the Lagos branch, the National President and a member of the Registered Board of Trustee of the association.” He recalled few among his philanthropic gesture, saying “Alhaji Abdulateef Olayinka Salako completed MAN Nursery and Primary School building recovered through loan redemption, the MAN building at Kernel Street, laid the foundation of the blocks of classrooms at New Bussa Branch, Niger State, contributed to the development of Ibadan and other branches, stood for numerous roles and contributions in advancing the cause of Lagos Muslim Community. He established both the Women Assalatu Union and the Youth League.” Ojikutu said the association has lost a father and friend to many people across generations. MAN Public Relations Officer, Lagos branch, Ogunbambi Ismail described Alhaji salako, as a man of many parts of the society, a role model, an icon and a philanthropist who impacted positively in the lives of millions across the world. “You can’t but love him because he was so humane and humble. He will really be missed.”