 Round cut ring | Martha Stewart Weddings are a big deal in every culture and the season of saying “I do” never runs out.   If there’s one big part of wedding celebrations, everyone looks forward to it’s THE PROPOSAL. Whether you opt for a private or public proposal, the first question on everyone’s lips once you share the good news is usually “show us the ring.” There’s a reason engagement rings cost as much as they do and why a lot of thought goes into picking one out. Which is why before choosing a ring, it is important to consider the shape of the gem, the kind of stone and its metal band. Regardless of what ring style your partner picks out, there’s always one detail that rings true; your engagement ring very often suits your personality. Wondering how? Here’s some help on what your engagement ring style says about you Round Cut: Round cut ring | Martha Stewart If your engagement ring style is a round cut, then you are most likely traditional. There’s a reason why round cut rings are trendy and never go out of style, and it’s because they are easily spotted. The design of this cut allows the stone to catch the light from every angle, creating a sparkle. So it’s safe to say you don’t mind standing out in the crowd; you are sociable, confident, and reliable and no doubt a true romantic. Oval Twist: Oval Twist ring | Hitched Another timeless ring, the oval twist, stands out for its more contemporary style. Similar to the round cut ring, oval twist styles have the same shine and elegance, standing out for their originality. What’s really interesting about this ring style is that it masks clarity and colour imperfections; also, your fingers look slimmer with an oval cut. Owners of oval rings are highly creative and sharp-minded, very similar to the sparkle of their rings. You’re also very daring and an individualist willing to take well-calculated risks. Pear Cut: Pear cut | Pinterest One of the rarest engagement ring styles, you can always tell a pearl cut from afar. It’s multi-functional style means you can wear it with the sharp edge facing upwards or pointing down, changing its look. A fashionable choice, pearl cut ring owners are extravagant and confident. They don’t shy away from the limelight and are very usually the best dressed at any event. If you own a pearl cut ring, we can count on you to be the life of the party and to express yourself every time. Princess Cut: Another fashionable ring choice, the princess cut, is not as popular, but that doesn’t make it even less beautiful, just even less expensive. Whether you opt for a rectangular or square cut stone, one thing is for sure; you love a classic look. If this is your engagement ring style, chances are you’re classic with a modern touch; just as traditional as you are, you’re in no way boring and most definitely a trendsetter. Marquise Cut: Marquise cut engagement ring | Diamond and Gold Warehouse Another ring with an outstanding sparkle, the Marquise cut ring is striking and best suited for stylish brides with a powerful character. Our guess? You always stand your ground, and you’re not afraid to express your opinion. Definitely not a down-to-earth person. Asscher Cut: Another stylish ring choice, the Asscher cut, is the right fit for brides who love vintage fashion. A much less shiny Princess cut, the Asscher style doesn’t mask inclusions and keeps your stone’s quality intact. Chances are you are very imaginative, sincere, reliable and a great support system. You can choose an engagement ring design that matches your personality once you know what each ring means. Your engagement ring lasts forever, and knowing what your ring means makes it even more special.  