strong>IPAC pledges to engage Soludo on good governance in Anambra Vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 general election, Peter Obi, has pleaded with Nigerians to give him more time to consult before deciding on whether or not to contest the 2023 presidential poll. Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, also urged his supporters not to sue him for not declaring for the 2023 presidency yet, saying he has no money for court cases. He said this in a response to a tweet by one FakeBuhari, who threatened to sue him if he failed to declare for the presidency in 2023. FakeBuhari had tweeted: “If at the end of this month you don’t declare interest for the presidency in the 2023 election, be ready for legal action. Leave #AFCON2021 for Orji UZOR Kalu, that is his calling, not yours. Your calling is excellent economic leadership. Congrats #TeamNigeria.” He made the comment while responding to Obi’s congratulatory tweet to the Super Eagles for defeating Sudan 3-1 on Saturday in the ongoing African Cup of Nations (AFCON) tournament. But responding, Obi said: “I wish I knew your real name. But the truth is, I don’t have money to spend on a court case. Give me some time.” Obi had, in October 2021, denied campaign posters being circulated offline and online and on different social media platforms. A statement issued by his media aide, Valentine Obienyem, disclosed that Obi’s office had been inundated with clarifications on the presidential posters being circulated in various media platforms. According to the statement, Obi was not in any way connected to or authorised anybody or organisation to promote such on his behalf. BESIDES, the Anambra State chapter of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has pledged to engage the Governor-elect, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, on good governance to ensure that Anambra people enjoy democratic dividends under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) administration. State chairman of IPAC, Chief Uchenna Uwgoji, stated this at the weekend during his acceptance speech after the state chapter executive election held at the Media centre of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in headquarters in Awka. Uwgoji, who also state chairman of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) expressed satisfaction and confidence with the first appointments Soludo made in the transition committee. He cautioned members of the 74 deregistered political parties still parading as IPAC officials in the state to desist from such act or face the law, stressing that there was only one IPAC in Anambra State. Leader of IPAC national team, Child Achusi, who was accompanied by Frank Agumadu and Mrs. Chinyere Oge-Kalu, who conducted the election announced Moses Obi (treasurer), Leonard Ezenwamma (Assistant Secretary), Emeka Ezeife (Financial Secretary), Mathias Ameke (Publicity Secretary), John Oguejiofor (Organising Secretary) and Emma Chibuzo (legal Adviser), among others.