Sheriff, Buni Raises Chairmanship Stakes Events of last Monday threw the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) into spasmodic fits and frenzy: While the party was contemplating how to convey to its faithful why the earlier February 5 date for the national convention was no longer feasible, the ‘national leader’ visited President Muhammadu Buhari with a peculiar message.  It is therefore against the background of plots by the ambitious PGF members to ensure the emergence of a Muslim national chairman and pave the way for a Christian Presidential candidate that the sudden public acknowledgement by Tinubu of his interest in the 2023 race jolted the party hierarchy.
   
Within the Northeast, it was gathered that anti-Tinubu sentiments were behind the ascendancy of Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, who is said to be a strong character that has an axe to grind with the Asiwaju tendencies over the fall out from the merger arrangement. However, the fear within the PGF is that going by his antecedents, Sheriff may not be predictable with power as he is also known to nurse a Presidential ambition. Zoning Albatross
CHAIRMAN, Senate Committee on Army and representative of Borno South Senatorial District, Senator Ali Ndume, had disclosed that he has two preferred candidates for the position of national chairman. He added that while one hails from Northeast, the other is from North Central, stressing that based on the organogram of the party, the next national chairman should come from either of the two zones.  Preserving Southwest Bloc
THOSE who expected the outgoing governor of Ekiti State to join in the rush for the declaration were taken aback, when Governor Fayemi sought audience with the strong man of Lagos politics, Tinubu.
 
Contrary to the general perception among power brokers in APC, Tinubu still commands a stronghold on the Southwest structure of the party. Consequently, or perhaps, in recognition of the fact, especially given that he has a succession plan to prosecute in Ekiti State, the chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) chose the path of cooperation rather than a confrontation that forces outside the region recommend.  Convention Timeline
WITH the flurry of declarations by presidential aspirants, pressure is mounting on the Buni CECPC to organise the national convention and give way to a substantive NWC.  But, no sooner was the letter made public than some incumbent state smelled a rat, saying that there was a plot to destroy APC and hand over easy victory to the opposition PDP.
   
The PGF DG, in a statement, condemned Kalu’s suggestion, contending that it paves the way for the confusion that could dispose APC to a similar experience in Zamfara, Bayelsa and Rivers States.
    
While Kalu’s proposition is said to be a possible avenue for a give and take with the incumbent governors, the leadership of PGF is said to be wary of the subtle plot by the class 99 governors to wrest control of the APC structure from them (incumbent state governors). 