• FG acknowledges concerns, hopes to improve revenue generation
• Lawan: Govt will keep borrowing to fund development until revenue rises
• Scale downsize of government, cost of governance, says Yusuf As the Federal Government continues to explore new measures of raising revenue through tax reforms, there are concerns that no amount of tax revenue will be enough to finance the magnitude of fiscal indiscipline by the executives, if the cost of governance is not addressed, even as debts mount.  Currently, Nigeria’s deficit is N7.05 trillion, with a higher figure expected at the end of the 2021 financial year. The government had targeted a budget deficit of N5.6 trillion in 2021.
  
For the 2022 fiscal year, the government hopes to achieve a deficit of N6.4 trillion amid concerns about revenue generation. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s total debt stock rose from N32.9 trillion as of December 2020 to N39.6 trillion in November 2021. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, during her presentation of the 2022 approved budget, disclosed that the government borrowed N6.7 trillion between January and November 2021.
  
Despite higher revenue from rising oil prices, production challenges have put the country on the edge, with production averaging 1.3 million barrels per day, despite getting a higher quota from the oil cartel. From a projected oil revenue of N2.01 trillion in the 2021 budget, the country barely earned N970.3 billion between January and November 2021.
 
With over N7 trillion in fiscal deficit as predicted by The Guardian last year, there are concerns that the country may be heading towards double-digit deficit financing in the 2022 financial year. Fiscal indiscipline is a major contributor to inflation and ratchets up domestic borrowing.  ALREADY, the Senate, yesterday, stated that it would develop a strategy of engagement with revenue-generating agencies on how to make them achieve their targets and generate more revenues in 2022 to narrow the margins of borrowing by the government.
  
Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, said they would ensure that the revenue-generating drive of the agencies was boosted with a view to reducing borrowing for the development of the much-needed infrastructure. According to him, funding the 2022 Budget is presently predicated on significant borrowing, a situation that has made the country caught between the devil and the deep blue sea.
  
“We must, therefore, strategise on effective oversight of the implementation of the 2022 Budget. This is going to be the last budget that would be fully implemented for 12 months in the life of the ninth Senate. We, therefore, need to supervise very closely. 
   
“Distinguished colleagues, funding of the 2022 Budget is predicated on significant borrowing. Our country is caught between the devil and the deep blue sea. We have to construct and provide infrastructure in all parts of our country because infrastructure is needed for our nation to develop.  Special Adviser, Media and Communications to the Minister of Finance, Yunusa Abdullahi, acknowledged the concerns about the rising deficit, noting that the government has also assured that the country’s debt profile is ‘healthy’ because the size of the borrowing is still within ‘healthy and sustainable limit.’ He said: “What we have is a revenue problem and on that course too, the government has shored up revenue and will continue to do that. This government has made infrastructural development a priority and will continue to do that and we will source for funds to do it because the country really has no choice but to build roads, power, bridges, railways and other developmental projects.
   
“The Minister has emphasised that the government is doing a combination of cutting costs and increasing revenue to be able to borrow less and still provide the necessary infrastructure. The Customs and FIRS have done a lot to shore up revenue and that will continue in this fiscal year too, hoping that with increased revenue, the government will borrow less,” he added. AN economist and Chief Executive Officer of Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), Dr Muda Yusuf, said it has become necessary to scale down the size of government and cost of governance, adding that fiscal sustainability is driven by both cost and revenue.
 
According to him, what is needed is the political will to cut expenditure and undertake reforms that could scale down the size of government, reduce governance cost and ease the financial burden on the government.
  
“It is important to ensure that the debt is used strictly to fund capital projects, especially infrastructure projects, that would strengthen the productive capacity of the economy. This is the position of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Additionally, emphasis should be on concessionary financing, as opposed to commercial debts, which are typically very costly. 