President Joe Biden marked the anniversary of the riot on the US Capitol Thursday with a hard-hitting speech squarely blaming Donald Trump for the mayhem and arguing that US democracy is in jeopardy. Here are key points from the address: – Trump’s ‘web of lies’ –
Biden assailed Trump as a self-centred liar who simply could not accept defeat in the 2020 election and placed his own interests above those of the nation. WASHINGTON, DC – JANUARY 06: U.S. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris depart through the Hall of Columns after delivering speeches to mark the first anniversary of the January 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol by supporters of former President Donald Trump, on Capitol Hill on January 6, 2022 in Washington, DC. One year ago, supporters of President Donald Trump attacked the U.S. Capitol Building in an attempt to disrupt a congressional vote to confirm the electoral college win for Joe Biden.   Evelyn Hockstein-Pool/Getty Images/AFP (Photo by POOL / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / Getty Images via AFP)  “He’s done so because he values power over principle because he sees his own interest as more important than his country’s interest,” Biden said. “He can’t accept he lost.” – Mob was ‘not tourists’ –
Biden dismissed some Republicans’ claim that the riot was a legitimate political demonstration in which some people got out of hand. He said Trump sat at the White House “watching it all” on television and doing nothing for hours. President Joe Biden speaks to the media as he departs with Vice President Kamala Harris after they spoke at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2022 in Washington, DC. One year ago, supporters of President Donald Trump attacked the U.S. Capitol Building in an attempt to disrupt a congressional vote to confirm the electoral college win for Joe Biden.   Ken Cedeno-Pool/Getty Images/AFP (Photo by POOL / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / Getty Images via AFP)  “This wasn’t a group of tourists. This was an armed insurrection. They weren’t looking to uphold the will of the people. They were looking to deny the will of the people.” – ‘Dagger’ at the throat of democracy –
Biden said he will never let a US election be overturned, as he said Trump and his allies tried to do. “I will stand in this breach. I will allow no one to place a dagger at the throat of democracy. We will make sure the will of the people is heard, that the ballot prevails, not violence.” – ‘Soul of America’ –
Biden warned that America is in crisis, with Trump’s lie that the election was stolen from him still embraced by millions, and Republican-led states enacting voting reforms widely seen as restrictions on people likely to vote Democratic. “The former president and supporters have decided the only way for them to win are to suppress your vote and subvert our elections. It’s wrong. It’s undemocratic. And frankly, it’s un-American,” he said. Biden said the stakes could not be higher as America fights to preserve the rule of law and choose between democracy and autocracy, a battle he said was also playing out around the world. “We are in a battle for the soul of America,” he said. “A battle that by the grace of God, the goodness and greatness of this nation, we will win.”