• Abduct ex-guber candidate, don in Plateau
• Release two more Baptist students
• MBF tasks FG on security Bandits have killed no fewer than seven persons in four villages across Igabi, Chikun and Zangon-Kataf local councils of Kaduna State, while 18 others have been reported kidnapped in Udawa along Birnin Gwari/Kaduna road. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the killing, yesterday, did not confirm abduction of the 18 villagers, but a community leader in Udawa, Muhammed Umaru, said one person was killed and 18 kidnapped when bandits attacked Angwar Zalla in Udawa yesterday. ALSO, former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Chief Kemi Nshe, and a lecturer of the Plateau State University (PLASU), Bokkos, Dr. Monday Hassan, have been abducted. Their kidnap was confirmed yesterday by the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of (PLASU), James Agam. Spokesman of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Major Ishaku Takwa, said he was aware but had no details. No ransom has been demanded on any of the captives. HOWEVER, two more of the 121 kidnapped students of Bethel Baptist School, Kaduna, have been released by the bandits. The Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna State, Rev. John Hayab, confirmed, yesterday, that 120 of the 121 abducted students had been released so far, remaining one with the kidnappers. According to him, one of the students was released on December 28, 2021, and the other released on January 1, 2022. MEANWHILE, the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to order the security forces to defeat Boko Haram and throw them out of Damboa Local Council. The forum spoke against the backdrop of terrorists taking over Damboa in the past three years, to the extent of mounting roadblocks. In his New Year message, the President of MBF, Bitrus Pogu, stated: “Boko Haram elements have completely taken over Damboa in Southern Borno, in the past three years without any challenge from the security personnel. BUT Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State has said that security forces in the state made substantial contributions to the reduction of banditry, herdsmen/farmers’ clashes, ethnic feuds, and kidnapping. The governor, who stated this yesterday in Jalingo, observed that security personnel are still in need of cooperation to actualise their mission. While urging politicians to exercise restraint, the governor charged religious leaders, traditional rulers, parents and guardians to keep a tight grip on the youths, “so that they do not become agents of instability in the hands of misguided individuals seeking power at any costs.” 