Blame army, police, governor for killings, not ESN, says IPOB
State projects N5b monthly IGR, repays N1.3b AMCON debt Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, failed to name the alleged sponsors and financiers of insecurity in the state, as he made people to believe prior to yesterday’s stakeholders’ luncheon and interactive session at the Government House, Owerri. Uzodimma said his decision followed the advice from security agencies, adding that security operatives would conclude their investigations and charge the suspects to court in accordance with the law. At the event, during which participants observed a minute’s silence for those killed by bandits, the governor said after he pledged to reveal sponsors and financiers of insecurity in the state, the issue was politicised, but insisted that he would not leave security of the state to chances. He, however, expressed concerns that of all the governors, who had ruled the state, former Governor Rochas Okorocha, had been problematic. “The difference between the other former governors and Okorocha is that he (Okorocha) is out of office, but still wants to be in office. He is my younger brother. He should allow me reign in peace within the period I am in office,” he said. The event chaired by Chief Executive Officer of Zinox Technologies, Leo Stan Ekeh, was attended by Uzodimma’s deputy, Prof. Placid Njoku; Speaker, Imo State House of Assembly, Kennedy Ibe; former Governor Ikedi Ohakim; former deputy governors and speakers; a former Inspector General of Police, Mike Okiro; President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor; Chairman of Ohanaeze Elders Council, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu and Onyeka Onwenu, among others. BUT the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), yesterday, alleged that the Nigerian Army, Police Force and Uzodimma were responsible for the killings and insecurity in Imo. A statement by the group’s spokesman, Emma Powerful, noted that the security agencies peddled false reports regarding the residents of the state to paint a negative picture of them. “Following the frustration and lack of professionalism of the Nigerian security agencies, they have, as usual, resorted to lies and propaganda to deceive members of the public. “The Nigerian Army and police parading and killing innocent citizens in Imo State have started with falsehood to demonise their innocent victims. They can only deceive those who don’t know what is happening in Imo State, since Uzodimma and his party have turned Imo State into an abattoir for innocent Biafra people. MEANWHILE, Uzodimma, disclosed that the State Government would henceforth look towards achieving N5 billion monthly Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He also said his administration embarked on a total of 99 road projects of which about 33 were completed, while others were at various stages of completion. He disclosed that the state government had paid N1.3 billion owed the Asset Management Cooporation of Nigeria (AMCON), and recovered the state owned Standard Shoe Industry in Owerri from the company, among other achievements. 