Telecommunications operator, Globacom, has said that two more brand new cars would be won in the Joy Unlimited Extravaganza promotion. The company gave the indication in Okota, Lagos, yesterday when it presented the keys to a Kia Rio to the 37-year-old insurance executive, Kafayat Adewale, who emerged the 13th car winner in the promo. The company had announced at the start of the promo in October 2021 that a total of 15 brand new Kia Rio cars would be given out to winners as part of the 500,000 total prizes to be won. The other prizes are television sets, power generators, refrigerators, data plans and other Glo freebies. Sixty-Six other Glo subscribers also went home with their prizes at the Okota event. They include 23 television set winners, 20 refrigerator winners and 23 generator winners. Adewale, the car winner, described the prize as “a unique way to start the year 2022”. She added “For the past five days, I have not been myself. It’s not that I don’t have a car but if anyone had predicted in December that I will have a brand new car in January, I wouldn’t have believed.  Initially, I was skeptical when I got a call from Glo but by the time the second call came in and they all sounded very professional coupled with the fact that I visited the Gloworld near Cele Bus Stop where I did the verification and   I saw the car parked there, I became convinced. Today I have received the car key and I am now a Glo ambassador. I will continue to convince all Nigerians to join the Glo network. God bless Glo.” A television winner, Odunayo Balekan, a 42-year-old Engineer with Dangote Cement in Ibeshe, Ogun State, expressed gratitude to Globacom for what he and other winners described as new year gifts, “I will enjoy both my football games and Nollywood movies with my family on the new television set. I appreciate Glo and will make it my permanent network henceforth”. Globacom’s Regional Manager, Sales, Abdulrasaq Ande, expressed the appreciation of the board and management of the company to all Nigerians, particularly Glo subscribers for their support and loyalty over the years. He said, “You remain our pillar of strength and we will continue to give more value to our subscribers as they use their Glo lines”, adding that 12 brand new Kia Rio cars have been won so far in addition to hundreds of thousands of subscribers who have won home appliances including television, refrigerators and generators as well as data plans and other Glo freebies. Zonal Coordinator, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Mrs. Prisicilla Onuzulu, who also spoke at the event congratulated Globacom for always delivering on its promises. She said, “Glo is a big brand and they have been compliant since the commencement of the promo. So far Globacom has done very well”.