The National Chairman, Social Democratic Party (SDP), Dr. Olu Agunloye, yesterday, said the SDP was not part of the formation of any mega political party, reason it has not nominated anyone to represent its interest.
 
In a statement, he said: “SDP’s attention has been drawn to a bogus publication, which surfaced with names of national leaders, presidential and vice-presidential hopefuls and members of the board of trustees of a so-called mega political party. “Unfortunately, the phantom list also included the names of the party’s National Chairman, Dr Olu Agunloye; the Deputy National Chairman (North), Dr Abdul Isiaq, and the National Secretary, Alhaji Shehu Musa Gabam, as being part of the national leaders of the so-called mega political party, aside being assigned portfolios as national officials. “Our party, SDP wishes to say categorically that we are not part of the formation of any mega political party and have not nominated anyone to represent the party in any proposed positions.” We strongly denounced the inclusion of SDP officials in this grand ‘mega party cum third force’ deception, and sees the action as a desperate move by dubious politicians for selfish desires.” He said the idea of packaging names of persons, who have not been consulted or given consent is an affront on the current efforts being made by well-meaning, patriotic Nigerians to bring diverse trustworthy men, women and vibrant youths together under a viable and credible political platform that will serve as an alternative to the Siamese APC – PDP that has ruled Nigeria since 1999.
 
“Reckless politicians should stop acts that could further degrade democratic practice in Nigeria. We advise political mischief-makers and their restless co-conspirators or co-travellers to stop daydreaming and face the realities on ground.  He, nonetheless, said the party would remain committed to engaging and synergising with individuals, groups and civil societies that are sincerely willing and ready to change the status quo for the betterment of the people and nationwide economic development.
  
“At this time, the people need food, security, social security and sustainable development, not conmen or bad leadership.”