Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), yesterday, stepped up efforts to clear aerodromes of touts with the arrest of 90 persons over alleged touting and other nefarious conducts at Lagos and Abuja airports. Among those arrested, according to FAAN, are workers of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc, Patovilki Nigeria Limited, Lakewood Services, and other airport workers. The authority saddled with management of airports nationwide said 89 out of the 90 culprits had been handed over to the police for prosecution.
The raid is coming after cases of car vandalisation, thefts and extortion were reported at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. General Manager, Corporate Affairs of FAAN, Henrietta Yakubu, said the touts were arrested for various acts of illegality that include fake COVID-19 test results, touting, unauthorised entry, trespass, illegal facilitation, forgery, loitering, theft, and environmental nuisance among others. Yakubu said of the total arrested, 59 were handed over to the airport police command in Abuja for prosecution, while 30 were handed over to the police force in Lagos for proper sanction. She said: “FAAN, hereby, warns those that do not have any legitimate business at the airports, as well as airport staff carrying out illegal duties to desist from such acts, as the Authority will not hesitate to arrest and hand over such individuals for prosecution.” In a reaction, NAHCO management said efforts were on to cooperate with FAAN and identify its workers involved for proper sanction. “NAHCO is in support of the arrest of airport staff for touting and other vices. We commend the move. “NAHCO is a responsible player in the industry, as such, will not condone any form of illegality. We urge FAAN to always carry us along in this fight. The current move will in no small measure, help our industry to grow as well as bring sanity to the airports. “We will, however, engage FAAN, to provide us the details of our personnel alleged to be involved, to enable us to activate our internal disciplinary process as we currently do not have any clue as to who is involved, when, and in what capacity,” the management’s statement read in part.