Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, on Monday, went down memory lane on his political journey with his predecessor, Senator Seriake Dickson, describing the latter as a political strategist. Diri stated this when he received the Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District in his hometown, Sampou, in Kolokuma/ Opokuma council. The governor recalled how both of them began their political journey serving in past civilian administrations in the state except one.
His Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, in a statement, quoted the governor as saying that their longstanding relationship was of a mutual brotherly bond. Diri emphasised that his predecessor had always been instrumental to his political successes and recalled that his first elected position as member of the National Assembly was achieved under the leadership of Dickson. He also narrated how his smooth transition from the House of Reps to the Senate and now governor of the state became possible because Dickson believed in his capacity to consolidate on the legacies laid for the state. He said: “Dickson and I have known each other long before the creation of Bayelsa State (in 1996). We had been involved in Ijaw activism in Port Harcourt and later served in other administrations in the state. “Like he (Dickson) rightly mentioned, it is only in one administration both of us did not serve in this state. And we never knew he would become governor but because that was his destiny, it came to pass. “The kind of relationship we share is cherished by both of us. I recall when we were looking for who to contest the House of Reps seat for our party. While I was busy looking for the right person outside, he was in his office doing same thing. Finally, he decided and told me that those around him have pointed to my direction to represent Yenagoa/ Kolokuma/ Opokuma Federal Constituency. That was how I started the journey to the National Assembly.” Speaking earlier, Dickson said as part of the Yuletide festivities, he came to pay homage and solidarity to the number one citizen of the state as a mark of respect as well as reciprocate the earlier gesture of the governor when he visited him at his country home in Toru-Orua community.