First things first- Satoshi Nakamoto, a mysterious personality, created and introduced Bitcoin to the world. The Bitcoin network appeared on 3rd January 2009 when its founder mined the genesis block number 0 after its introduction in a whitepaper on 31st October 2008. At that time, the reward for this block was 50 Bitcoins. Bitcoin serves as a digital currency, and its popularity has increased since then because it serves as the fiat money alternative. Bitcoin’s primary purpose is to enhance the public’s convenience. Initially, Bitcoin wasn’t fully developed, and people faced different issues while using this digital currency. However, players in the Bitcoin network realized that people were ready to embrace Bitcoin, and several problems hindered them from adopting it. Therefore, they dealt with issues that limit people from embracing Bitcoin with new evolutions. Consequently, Bitcoin adoption increased, making it the most prominent cryptocurrency globally. Being a pioneer cryptocurrency has fueled the success of this virtual currency further. Today, people invest in Bitcoin via digital platforms like Bitcoin Profit. And owning or having a computer is not a must to invest in Bitcoin on such platforms. You can easily buy, sell, or store Bitcoins using your Android smartphone. Bitcoin as an Exchange Medium Bitcoin is not for investment purposes only. People can use it as an exchange medium when buying and selling commodities and services. This digital currency’s main aim is to provide a convenient payment gateway. With Bitcoin, you don’t struggle to complete a transaction. What’s more, you can transact with other people outside your country. Since Bitcoin doesn’t require intermediaries or financial service providers like banks, you can transact with it at any time across geographical borders. Also, Bitcoin has low transaction charges compared to traditional payment methods. Initially, Bitcoin’s value was meager. However, it has increased over the years as people realize the potential of this virtual currency. Bitcoin’s value broke its all-time high record after hitting the $65,000 mark in 2021. Some people are among the wealthiest individuals today because they invested in Bitcoin when its price was at its lowest. Many people didn’t know they could make good money using Bitcoin. However, some individuals depend on this digital currency to earn a living today. Bitcoin as an Investment When Satoshi introduced Bitcoin, many people ignored this virtual currency. Some people saw it as a passing cloud. It wasn’t easy to convince somebody to buy and hold this virtual asset back then. Perhaps, people feared losing the money they would invest in this digital currency. However, the increasing value of this virtual currency has prompted many people to invest in it. While Bitcoin’s price kept fluctuating throughout its existence, its value has increased over the years. People who bought and held onto this cryptocurrency now have investments worth more than they spent buying it. Consequently, more people are rushing to invest in this virtual currency. And more Bitcoin investment platforms keep emerging. Nevertheless, people should investigate the sites or apps they use to purchase or sell Bitcoin to ensure their security. Bitcoin’s Volatility Bitcoin’s price fluctuates regularly, making it a highly volatile asset. But the rising and falling prices are why people can profit from Bitcoin trading. Ideally, you can make money trading Bitcoin if you understand its volatility. Several online platforms provide tools for analyzing market trends to determine when to purchase or sell this virtual currency. However, most experts recommend buying and holding onto this virtual currency to benefit from its increasing value. Final Word Some people have made millions of dollars from their Bitcoin investments. However, some have lost a lot of money trying to trade or invest in this virtual currency. Therefore, learn more about Bitcoin before investing in it. Also, investigate the platform you intend to use when investing in this cryptocurrency to ensure the safety of your investment.