 John Mulaney & Annamarie Tendler | Page Six Comedian John Mulaney and Annamarie Tendler have officially annulled their marriage after he filed for divorce five months ago.   Mulaney had filed for a divorce from his wife of seven years, and the marriage was officially annulled on Thursday, according to TMZ. The Saturday Night writer went to rehab a few months after he separated from last year due to an addiction to cocaine and other substances. After his release, Mulaney began a relationship with actress Olivia Munn, and the two welcomed their son, Malcolm Hiệp, in November. The couple has taken to social media to share their bundle of joy, posting several photos of their new baby, including an image where Mulaney pretended to cook him. Munn captioned the photo, ‘LOL Daddy’s New Banh Bao Recipe.’ In the wave of Mulanye’s newly found happiness, Tendler recently opened up about what she described as a ‘harsh and punishing’ year. She wrote on Friday, “My own brain is well acquainted with the elusiveness of hope that materializes in sporadic and ephemeral waves. I suppose, in part, this is what it means to live with depression and anxiety,’ the Connecticut-born 36-year-old – who boasts 535K Instagram/TikTok followers.” “That said, melancholia is oft amplified by circumstance and the circumstances of my year have been harsh and punishing. I find myself asking, ‘When will I feel normal?’ But in reality, I recognize that the normal from before has expired; “normal” is an impossibility, there is only “new.”‘ “An infinite history of pain and suffering occurred before this time, yet here we all are, surviving and creating and laughing at TikTok videos. So long 2021. For better or worse, I will carry a piece of you with me forever,” she continued. Mulaney publicly announced Munn’s pregnancy in September on Late Night With Seth Meyers, whose host had been part of his intervention last year. Praising Olivia for having ‘dealt with’ his newly sober self, he said, “She’s kind of held my hand through that hell, and we’re having a baby together.” In his interview, he recalled that he was first introduced to Olivia at Seth’s wedding on Martha’s Vineyard in 2013.