Nigerian fans and supporters as well as their Cameroonian counterparts were in a jubilation mood after Nigeria’s 1-0 victory over Egypt in opening Group ‘D’ match against Egypt on Tuesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the streets of Garoua were thrown into wild celebration as Iheanacho’s superb first-half goal handed Nigeria a well deserved 1-0 victory over Egypt in their Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Group ‘D’ opener. Iheanacho hammered in a half-volley from the edge of the box into the top corner in the 30th minute to settle the contest at the Stade Roumdé Adjia in Garoua, Cameroon. A cross section of fans who spoke to NAN said by this win against the seven-time champions, Nigeria had indeed sent a strong signal to the rest of Africa. Enjoyemmy Okegdo, a Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) member from the Headquarters in Lagos said the victory would make our other opponents in the group very weary of us. “We are going to beat Sudan next 3-0, that’s how we will beat everybody in the group. “I can already see us in the finals and going ahead to win the AFCON trophy,” he said. Kudirat Moshood, a supporter from Sokoto said her prayers had been answered, adding that she was grateful to God for the victory. “I prayed for this game that God should give us the victory and He answered my prayers. “I thank God for this victory and for granting us safe journey all the way from Sokoto to cheer our darling team to victory,” she said. Sanmi Shodimu, another supporter from Lagos said: “It’s a great day and a day of celebration for all of us because I actually predicted that Nigeria was going to win 2-0. “We could have scored more but all the same we are grateful for the one precious goal which gave us three points to top the group. “I predict a 3-0 in our next game against Sudan.” Also, some Cameroonians fans who were rooting for Nigeria during the game Pierre Moussa said he was very happy that the Egyptians lost to his ‘Nigerian brothers.’ “Salah is good footballer, but he did not play a good game today. “Nigeria took advantage of a sloppy Egyptian side and scored a vital goal which gave them the vital win. “Nigeria is at the top of the group which is the most important thing, while Egypt are currently at the bottom of the table,” he said Ibrahim Aboubakar said: “We Cameroonians were supporting Nigeria and we are happy that Super Eagles won their opening match, we are celebrating Nigeria’s victory.” The Super Eagles will next take on Sudan on Saturday, before playing their last game against Guinea Bissau on Jan. 19. (NAN)(www.nannews.ng)