The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CITL) Nigeria has urged its members to design innovative solutions to emerging challenges in all the modes of transport and supply chain across the country. The President, CITL Nigeria, Mfon Usoro, who stated this in her new year message, said this was part of the institute’s efforts to transform the logistics and transport sector. She charged the institute’s members to promote the logistics and transport industry and be exemplary in the quality, content and cost-effectiveness as trained professionals. Usoro said members should work towards transforming the way they operate the institute to attract more high-end private sector operators in the logistics and transport sector and constructively engage with government to rethink its approach to the industry. She said the government must appreciate transport as a key economic sector and substructure of every economy. Usoro added that part of the institute’s plan and strategy to grow the logistics and supply chain industry for the year include, the setup and composition of new committees, comprising of eminent professors and sector experts to develop relevant content for training programmes in line with the curriculum and guidance of CILT International. Others are institutionalise productive engagements with the regulators, operators and the academia in the logistics and transport industry and reforming the secretariat to entrench efficiency, transparency and prudence in the management of the institute. This, according to her, is in fulfilment of the electoral promise to decentralise power, be consultative and transparent in leadership approach in the redesigning and transformation of the institute. “We must make 2022 our year of transformation and hope, both as an institute of professionals and as a country. It lies within our powers to refresh and renew, in words and deeds, our bonds as colleagues and the process, set the tone and example for the rebuilding of our CILT.” “The quality of your contributions as members, branch chairpersons, committee chairpersons, council members and trustees will determine our rate of success in the achievement of our set goals. In the succeeding days, we would unfurl the details of Council-approved programmes for the year and encourage us all to commit to effective participation in the programmes, including the mandatory continuing education programmes,” she stated.