• Lalong vows to sign death warrant for kidnap convicts
• OPSH trains 98 youths in intelligence Gunmen have killed no fewer than four workers at a mining site in Dong village of Jos South Local Council of Plateau State. The Guardian gathered from locals that the armed men stormed the mining area in the evening of Saturday and started shooting randomly. The four workers reportedly fell to their bullets. It was also learnt that a woman, who survived the gun attack, is receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Uba Ogaba, confirmed that the attack was at 6.30p.m. on the fateful day. Ogaba also confirmed that the casualty figure was four, adding that the command had mobilised armed officers to the place to restore normalcy. MEANWHILE, Governor Simon Lalong has said that he will not hesitate to sign the death warrant for any convicted kidnapper, as the anti-kidnapping law signed last year stipulates capital punishment. He commended the Operation safe Heaven (OPSH) for its efforts in uniting diverse groups from Plateau, Bauchi and Kaduna states. Director of Press and Public Affairs to the Governor, Dr. Makut Macham, stated, yesterday, that the governor was glad that the swift response of the security forces to distress calls of kidnap incidents led to the dislocation of their operations and arrest of suspects, as well as rescue of victims. TO curb the incessant banditry in Southern Kaduna, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) has trained 98 youths on surveillance and information gathering. The graduation ceremony, which took place at the headquarters of Sector 7, Kafanchan, involved youths selected from all the communities and ethnic groups in Southern Kaduna. The Commander of OPSH, Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Ali, charged the youths to distance themselves from sentiments but discharge their duty without fear or favour. He stressed that the essence of the training was to protect the communities against enemies of peace. OPSH Military Information Officer, Maj. Ishaku Takwa, also warned the youths not to allow themselves to be used as political thugs by some persons to achieve their selfish goals. 