At a carnival-like mega rally, yesterday, at The Cenotaph, Asaba, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Delta State chapter, assured that there would be a free, fair and transparent primary election in choosing the party’s governorship candidate. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa  while  declaring the rally open, called on the over 15 aspirants to control their followers, as the political space opens, saying “we are one, your followers should not begin to fight.” While welcoming defectors from the All Progressives Congress (APC), Okowa lauded the state PDP Chairman, Chief Kingsley Esiso, for his good works in enlarging the political tentacles of the party saying: “This rally has made a statement that the PDP is prepared and united to win the 2023 election. Hence, we must continue to work with love as one family, unlike the other party, where they fight with bitterness and acrimony.” He further stated that his administration would continue to build more infrastructure, and “we are not going to slow down till I leave in May 2023.” Earlier during his address, former governor of the state, Chief James Ibori, called for an open environment for all aspirants to pursue their political ambitions without hindrance.
 
He commended Okowa for ensuring a level-playing field for all aspirants, saying his leadership of the state will continue beyond the end of his stewardship next year. Ibori pledged his commitment to the state, PDP and the country, even as he lauded Okowa’s developmental strides, which he said has brought defectors out of the wilderness. The event, which featured all the governorship aspirants, as well as those aspiring for other positions in the coming elections, witnessed the defection of a former state APC chairman, Cyril Ogodo; former Delta North Senatorial District chairman, Ben Onwuka; publicity secretary, Sylvester Imonina; Patrick Okonkwo; member of the Elders and Leaders Council of APC, Victor Sorokwu, amongst others. They were formally received into the PDP. One of the defectors, Ogodo in his remarks stated that the same hands that built the APC in the state were hard at workk towards destroying the same party. Esiso, while receiving the decampees reckoned that with their action, there was no more opposition in the state.
He accused APC of being anti-people, having brought poverty, insecurity, and other vices into the polity. “APC campaign with change, but the change we saw is negative in all ramifications,” he said, adding that the failures of the ruling party at the centre have resulted in large number of its members joining the PDP.” “As you can see, today is harvest day for us as a party, and we are celebrating the exit of the opposition.”
 On his part, Imonina said: “I was the greatest critic of the Okowa-led government, but on a second thought, I have to join the party to support the governor for a great and united Delta.” He described his exit from the APC as an eclipse of the party, following the exodus of former faithful, who joined him to pitch tent with the ruling party in the state. “Nothing is left for APC. In fact, APC is now a carcass of itself and nothing will bring it alive in the state.” Other leaders who spoke at the rally included, Deputy Governor, Kingsley Otuaro; Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Chief Ndudi Elumelu; Senator James Manager, and the former Senate Chief Whip, Senator Stella Omu. 