Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has directed all Northerners to boycott the sale, purchase and consumption of goods from the South East from April 2022. The directive was in reaction to the ban by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on the use of ‘Fulani cows’ (beef) in the South East. CNG Spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, stated last night that the IPOB’s order last Monday “amounts to grave provocation and serious threat to Northern commercial interests in the South East, and by extension to the physical wellbeing of Northerners living as minorities among Igbo communities. “It is a renewed resolve to pay coin for coin any direct or indirect attack or threat to Northerners and their interests anywhere in the country.” The group also called on Northerners to decline support for any political party, formation or movement that has the active participation of South-East politicians. Suleiman said: “For the avoidance of doubt, the North, while maintaining its tradition of tolerance and accommodation, shall, however, no longer be disposed to condoning further acts of irresponsibility in the form of deliberate threats of intimidation or harassment targeted at Northerners living and doing legitimate businesses elsewhere in the country. “Since such targeted utterances had, in the past, been the prelude to physical attacks on Northerners and destruction of their properties, particularly in the South East, we urge Northern transporters and suppliers of goods to consider alternative trade routes to avoid the imminent risks that come with this IPOB threat.” According to the coalition, the North has had enough of the antagonism from the South East and IPOB, and will no longer remain passive under such deliberate and sustained attacks, but will henceforth be forced to react to every provocation and unwarranted abuse and violation. “All those who have no other useful vocation than attacking Northerners under the slightest of pretexts should know that our patience has reached its nadir. “The North’s reticence in speaking out or taking action is not borne out of fear or ignorance of how to respond in kind,” Suleiman added. 