An online accommodation booking Platform, Aura by Transcorp Hotels, has unveiled #TheAuraExperience, a promo that seeks to give couples an all-expense paid vacation. Aura by Transcorp Hotels, an online platform for booking accommodation, food and experiences, said a couple stand a chance of winning a free night staycation to celebrate Valentine’s Day when either of them up to N100,000 on the platform. The company, a subsidiary of Transcorp Hotels Plc, stated this at an event where it hosted some of its stakeholders. The promo requires users to book accommodation, order food or book experiences worth at least N100, 000 during the promo period, to qualify for a draw where two winners would emerge. Throughout the promo period which ends on January 30, users of Aura can also enjoy discounts of up to 25 per cent on selected accommodation, food and experiences. “Aura is committed to providing people with unique homes and hotels when they are away from home. The platform is also set up to help users order great food at restaurants close to them and find things to do to make every moment memorable. This promo is our way of encouraging more people to experience Aura as we continue to spread happiness by creating memorable experiences through all our touchpoints,” Business Development Director, Ifeoma Okafor-Obi, said at the event held at Metro Apartments, one of the apartments listed on Aura by Transcorp Hotels. Aura provides a great selection of exquisite properties at the best prices, carrying out verification on all listings on the platform to ensure that guests are choosing from the right pool of options, and in keeping with the known high standards of the parent company. The hospitality company, which also owns Transcorp Hilton Abuja and Transcorp Hotels Calabar, has continued to expand its hospitality services, with a world-class event centre that can seat close to 4,000 guests expected to be completed in 2022. Aura by Transcorp Hotels supports official travel, relocation or staycation, ensuring that employees of corporate bodies are well-rested and focused on delivering business results. Companies that have sales representatives who are always on the move have found Aura by Transcorp Hotels to be a key partner, with guaranteed access to verified apartments that ensure the comfort and safety of their staff, Okafor-Obi said. 