 Fuji Vibrations Grand Finale Redefined Fuji Music To A New Generation Fuji: A Opera held its third and finale edition of Fuji Vibrations at the Muri Okunola  Park, Victoria Island on the 19th of December, 2021 to a cross-section of  distinguished guests. The night featured different generations of Fuji artistes belting  their unique Fuji styles to the delight of the teeming audience who were significantly  technocrats, industry captains, media moguls, tech entrepreneurs, visual artists,  designers, art collectors, socialites, influencers, music journalists, trill seekers and  Fuji music aficionados. The host of the night The Jide Taiwo, gave a quick recap of the activities and  footprints of Fuji: A Opera during the course of the year before he brought on stage, General Ayinla Kollington. His performance was a feast of sonic nostalgia. The 68  year old, who has been relevant in the Fuji music space for over 40 years had the  audience adlib to his songs, reciting his lyrics word for word while enjoying his easy  showmanship. Hunter Fuji, a promising Fuji act from Ijebu-Ode held court just after the veteran had  performed for about an hour. Hunter’s performance was introductory and  enlightening, energetic and precise. He paid obeisance to the veteran, gave a clinical performance that was filled with political quips, moral education and self-prophecies  for his nascent career in Fuji music. He had an unplugged session with General  Kollington, going back to back as they both sized each other with wits and heartfelt  prayers. SK Sensation who is also the president of the Fuji Musician Association of Nigeria  (FUMAN), made a clean segue into his performance, praying blessing on Hunter Fuji  and according due respect to General Ayinla Kollington. His hour-long set was  mature and self-assured. He performed like a veteran, connecting with the audience,  triggering impulses to spend and spray cash on him. His understanding of the social  dynamics of a room quickly endeared him to the audience as he was quick to preach  the tenets of FUMAN to a now captive audience. He ended his performance charging  the audience to support FUMAN’s on-going campaign to SAY NO TO RAPE. Fuji Vibrations not only entertains the blend of Fuji music styles, it also serves as a  platform to see the possibilities of other music genre in fusion with the Fuji Music  genre. DJ Maze & Xtreme held a 30 minutes DJ set that fused Electronic Dance Music  (EDM) with Fuji music. A happy remix of known Fuji songs got the room jumping as  they performed. Guests stood up and took to their phones to capture the fluid  transitions. Kolade Onanuga also known as KWAM 2 gave an easy performance with a certain  grandeur and refinement. His all white set was loud yet calm, and his command of  his band with little gestures and inflections gave his set a very professional appeal. Then came KS1 Malaika with agile legs, dancing waist and a well-oiled Fuji voice. He  cuts through with his music and stage presence, he also cuts deep to the  subconscious. He brings a certain ethereal presence to his style of Fuji music.  Malaika was infectious and easily lovable. As an astute music performer, he gave a  master class of stagecraft with his set. Victoria Island vibrated. Saheed Osupa, the finale performer of the night calmed the room with his presence.  He often punctuated his performance to emphasize the astuteness of his lyrics,  turning towards worship and self-praise and oscillating between both through out  his performance. Osupa is a lyricist, a philosopher and a beautiful performer. He  danced with his band members, calling some of his crew to take to the stage to  entertain. Indeed, he was the moon that sailed the night. A representative from Orijin gave an impressive remark, reinforcing the commitment  of the brand to celebrating the Fuji sub-culture beyond the calendar of Fuji: A Opera. The executive producers Tosin Ashafa and Papa Omotayo, gave a heart warming  thank you to everyone who participated in making this years attempt to re-imagine  the fuji music as an original Nigerian music genre which must be celebrated. This year, Fuji Vibrations reverberated a curated presence of the Fuji music sub culture in the city of Lagos and introduced the Fuji music genre to a new  demographic and to a new social mix. See photos from the event HERE: