Super Eagles Striker, Samuel Kalu, is the latest Nigerian to join English Premier League club, Watford. He is Watford’s first signing of the Roy Hodgson era. Former Crystal Palace manager Hodgson arrived at Vicarage Road on Tuesday to replace Claudio Ranieri. He is tasked with steering the Hornets away from the relegation zone – they sit 18th as things stand, two points from safety. [AD] Ranieri had been busy in the January transfer window, bringing in three players. Left-back Hassane Kamara, central defender Samir and defensive midfielder Edo Kayembe all joined under his supervision. Watford has continued their recruitment drive by capturing 24-year-old winger Kalu from Ligue 1 outfit Bordeaux. The transfer fee has not been disclosed. The wide man, who did not make Nigeria’s squad for the AFCON, has agreed on a three-and-a-half-year deal with the Hornets. He will deputise for Ismaila Sarr amid the player’s recovery from a knee injury and participation with Senegal at the African tournament. Kalu has made 11 league appearances for Bordeaux this season. His solitary goal came in September’s 3-3 draw with Montpellier. He originally cost the French club £7.65 million when joining from KAA Gent in Belgium. Speaking on his switch to the Premier League, Kalu said: “When I heard about the opportunity, I felt grateful. “It’s one of my dreams to play in the Premier League, this is what I want. I will be here to give my best. “I spoke to M’Baye Niang, he was my team-mate in Bordeaux, he told me a lot about the Premier League and he was here before, he told me it’s a great club. He said the Premier League is the best league in the world, so I should grab my chance. “[Slovakia, Belgium and France] are all good leagues, but I see the Premier League as more intense, powerful, I see it as the strongest league in the world. “With my experience from the leagues I have played in, it’s quite similar with Ligue 1 and the Premier League. It’s amazing, every game is like a final, playing against the top clubs in the world.”