 Honourable Exkid, Onuora Chibueze Paul, aka Honourable ExKid, is the CEO of Great Nation Global Entertainment. Entertainment.The Nigerian entertainment industry has unarguably come a long way, growing in leaps and bounds and making international headlines. But it is merely just scratching the surface – a glass ceiling Onuora Chibueze Paul, popularly known as Honourable Exkid, is induced to surpass. Honourable Exkid, a sharp-witted entrepreneur, and founder and chief executive of Great Nation Global Entertainment Limited is passion-driven to develop an array of talents in Nigeria’s entertainment sector and help them harness their potential, and create further wealth. It is for this reason he is initiating a change in the entertainment sector in the country. Honourable Exkid, who spoke about this vision and how to get there when he recently granted an audience to journalists in Lagos, explained that the approach would include the discovery, nurturing and promotion of musical and comedy artists. A brilliant move by the Great Nation Global Entertainment Limited CEO as Nigeria boasts of an array of musical and comedic talents who are searching for a springboard to launch themselves into stardom. Some of them become lucky enough to get known on social media, while others go down with their talent never harvested; a gap Honourable Exkid is bridging and linking them with fame. “Grace Nation Entertainment Limited is centred around the discovery, development and promotion of musical and comedic artists,” Honourable Exkid said. Highlighting the progress made so far by his outfit, he said: “So far, Grace Nation Entertainment has released two songs: ‘Hustle by Two’ and ‘Go and Pay,’ both by Deity. I must attest that people enjoyed the songs, particularly, ‘Go and Pay’ which featured Sparkle Tee. The song presently is a club banger,” Honourable Exkid said. With some impressive home-grown talents already signed up, Honourable ExKid’s ultimate dream is to conquer the global entertainment scene. “We are comprised of super-talented artists and great music professionals who are working to take the world by storm”, Honourable Exkid said. “We are experienced and we have the right team supporting the best talents. Our goal is to provide the world at large with quality music and general entertainment through our talented artists and experienced management.” Arguments may occur that there’s nothing that has not been seen in the entertainment industry. But visionaries like Honourable ExKid, delving into what appears to be an already-saturated industry, are like eagles. Coming to the scene as a game-changer, Great Nation Global Entertainment is incurably determined to take Nigeria’s creative industry to the next level in the continent and globally. “With our wide variety of talented artists and music acts, we are confident that we will keep producing quality music. “Our ultimate objective is to take entertainment to the next level whereby creative entertainment can comfortably focus on pursuing a career in the industry and at the end of the day will not blame themselves for choosing such a career path,” Honourable Exkid stated. 