• Zaar apologises over attack on Bauchi emirs, others
• I hope to see my son again, AbdulMutallab cries out Gunmen have attacked the ongoing Sino Hydro Power Electricity Dam project in Zungeru, Wushishi Local Council of Niger State, and kidnapped some Chinese and local staff working on the transmission line tower along Gussase village. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Niger State, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, told journalists, yesterday, in Minna, that the police tactical team attached to the project site engaged the hoodlums in a gun battle and rescued expatriates and a local staff. But Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Ahmed Matane, explained that government had yet to confirm any death. In another development, Zaar Development Association (ZDA), the umbrella body of Sayawa Nation of Bauchi State, has apologised over the attacks on the Chairman of Traditional Rulers Council, the Emir of Bauchi, Alh. Riwanu Adamu; and Emir of Dass, Alh Usman Othman. The emirs were to be royal fathers of the day at the 21st memorial of the late leader of Zaar nation crusader, Baba Peter Gonto, and a book launch slated for December 31, 2021. But on December 31, hoodlums razed the venue of the event, cars, houses and attacked the emirs on their way to the venue. MEANWHILE, billionaire businessman and father of Farouk AbdulMutallab, who was jailed for terrorism in America, Alhaji Umaru AbdulMutallab, longs to see his son again in his lifetime. The son of the octogenarian is serving a life sentence in a United States prison for terrorism act. He had, at the age of 23, attempted to detonate plastic explosives hidden in his underwear while aboard Northwest Airlines Flight 253, en route Detroit, Michigan, from Amsterdam on Christmas Day of 2009. In an interview monitored in Kaduna on yesterday, AbdulMutallab said he communicates with his son on the phone. The 81-year-old added: “We cannot phone him, but he’s the one who can phone us and we do speak. His mother, one of his brothers and one of his sisters were with him about weeks ago. They visited him under very strict prison guidelines. But we would keep on praying to Almighty Allah. “Maybe in my lifetime, we would see him back. But it is a situation whereby he has three life sentences, plus 40 years. It is a lot. Only Almighty Allah will bring us into a situation of seeing him in this world, with his siblings here in Nigeria.” 