 Zendaya Photo credit: Pinterest Zendaya has paid her tributes to late singer Ronnie Spector and said she hopes to make her proud by playing ‘her’ in a biopic.   Taking to Instagram, the singer shared a picture of Spector and a selfie she took with her in December 2012. Expressing her grief, Zendaya wrote that the news of Spector’s death left her broken-hearted. “This news just breaks my heart. To speak about her as if she’s not with us feels strange as she is so incredibly full of life. There’s not a time I saw her without her iconic red lips and full teased hair, a true rockstar through and through.” Zendaya revealed that she was honoured to have known Spector and fondly recalled details of their time together. She continued, “Ronnie, being able to know you has been one of the greatest honors of my life. Thank you for sharing your life with me, I could listen to your stories for hours and hours. Thank you for your unmeasured talent, your unwavering love for performing, your strength, resilience and your grace.” “There is absolutely nothing that could dim the light you cast. I admire you so much and am so grateful for the bond we share. You are a magical force of greatness, and the world of music will never be the same. I wish everyone got to experience you the way I did.” “We celebrate your beautiful life and give you all the flowers you so rightfully deserve. Rest in great power Ronnie. I hope to make you proud.” The 25-year old Emmy-award-winning actress is slated to portray The Ronnets lead singer in a biopic about the singer’s life. She was first linked to the Spector biopic in September 2020, and Spector, an executive producer on the film, specifically picked her to play her in the film. Ronnie Spector passed away on Wednesday, 12th January 2022, after a brief battle with cancer. The statement from her family announcing her death reads, “Our beloved earth angel, Ronnie, peacefully left this world today after a brief battle with cancer.” “Ronnie lived her life with a twinkle in her eye, a spunky attitude, a wicked sense of humor and a smile on her face,” the statement continues. “She was filled with love and gratitude.” “Her joyful sound, playful nature and magical presence will live on in all who knew, heard or saw her.”