The Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday, deplored the rejection of state police by some members of the House of Representatives Committee on Constitution Review. Its National Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, in a statement, said the objection “has reinforced the notion that most of the members are not in the National Assembly to serve the best interests of the majority of Nigerians.” According to Ajayi, the feeling across the length and breadth of Nigeria is to take every legitimate step to combat the unprecedented security challenge the country faces today. He commended Onofiok Luke (PDP: Akwa Ibom) for proposing an amendment to Section 214 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to enable states to set up their police establishments. Afenifere also lauded the other 11 members that voted in favour of the amendment, scolding the 14 lawmakers that were in opposition. Onofiok’s amendment had sought to move Section 214 (c) from the exclusive to the concurrent list. That way, the Constitution would empower, “both the National Assembly and Houses of Assembly to legislate on police and other security matters. But at the House committee’s sitting on January 26, 2022, 14 legislators voted against the amendment, while 11 lawmakers voted in favour. The Yoruba group stated that with the number of lives lost so far to terrorism, it could not be defended that the lawmakers would throw away the golden opportunity to put criminality in Nigeria in check. It added that by “this rejection, the impression is being created that some well-placed people are deriving pleasure from the unwarranted loss of lives, properties and territories that are now the hallmark of our daily living. Such people, however, needed to be reminded that terrorism, at some point, may not have respect for even those who brought it into being.” IN a related development, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has advocated for a detribalised and experienced person as Nigeria’s President in 2023, expressing optimism that this would assuage the insecurity and chaos existing in parts of the nation.
  
He spoke, yesterday, at the inauguration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement Working Committee in Ikeja.  On his part, former Minister of Works and Housing, Adeseye Ogunlewe, urged Nigerians to take charge of their destinies by ensuring that they support the right candidate. In his goodwill message, a chieftain, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, charged the committee on focus.