Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, and Chief Justice of Nigeria Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad will be special guests at the Justice Sector Summit 2022 scheduled to hold in Abuja on January 25. Others expected as special guests at Justice Sector Summit 2022 are Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of Nigeria’s House of Representatives, and Abubakar Malami, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, while Hon. Justice Peter Affen, a Justice of the Court of Appeal, will deliver the keynote address. Justice Sector Summit 2022 is being organised by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the Justice Research Institute, in collaboration with the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and The Justice Reform Project. The summit, which has the theme “Devising Practical Solutions Towards Improved Performance, Enhanced Accountability and Independence in the Justice Sector”, comes as an effort to harmonise the various initiatives of different stakeholders towards addressing perceived challenges in the Nigerian justice sector. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will be the Special Guest at the Justice Sector Summit 2022, scheduled to hold in Abuja on January 25. It is aimed towards establishing and maintaining an effective, fair, humane, accessible and accountable justice sector in Nigeria, which is indispensable for upholding the rule of law and is critical for the socio-economic and political development of the nation. According to a concept note for Justice Sector Summit 2022 shared by the NBA, different stakeholders in the justice sector, including the Justice Research Institute, the NBA, the National Judicial Council (NJC), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Konrad Adenauer Foundation and the Justice Reform Project were all planning various initiatives aimed at addressing perceived challenges in the Nigerian justice sector. “Consequently, it was resolved that rather than having separate initiatives and events with the potential for dissipation of efforts and impact, these organisations would come together to host a one-day Justice Sector Summit aimed at addressing the most pressing challenges confronting the Nigerian justice sector,” the NBA said. Justice Sector Summit 2022 will take a hybrid format, with participants attending both physically and virtually. The Attorney General of the Federation, the Chief Justice, the Senate President and the NBA President, Olumide Akpata, will hold a panel session on “Devising Practical Solutions Towards Improved Performance, Enhanced Accountability and Independence in the Justice Sector”, to be moderated by Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), a former president of the NBA. 