Lagos State Government has debunked reports that the newly-introduced ‘no-vehicle inspection, no roadworthiness policy’ is aimed at generating revenue for the state. Director, Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) in the state, Akin-George Fashola, who stated this during a radio programme, yesterday, appealed to vehicle owners to come forward with their vehicles, saying the cost is already included in the total amount paid for renewal of the document. He said the old method of issuing a roadworthiness certificate and then expecting vehicle owners to present their vehicles for inspection within 30 days is no longer sustainable as most owners do not return once the certificate has been issued. “The referral note we give when you come to us is just for a grace period that covers 30 days during which we expect you to have checked and fixed the vehicle. The referral note is not an automatic clearance,” he said. Fashola explained that the VIS is ramping up its capacity to accommodate more vehicles through 27 fully equipped centres, while 30 more are underway to cover the 57 local governments and local council development areas. He said Mobile Testing Centre is also available within the state for companies and owners of large fleets of vehicles. “You can go to any centre within the length and breadth of the state. Even if you do your first inspection on the Mainland and you had to do your second inspection on the Island, you have no problem because they are all connected,” Fashola said. The Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service centres, according to the director are: Ayobo, Oko-Oba, PWD, Lagos Island, Agric-Ishawo, Owode-Onirin, Bolade-Oshodi, Oke-Odo, Epe, Ojodu, Gbagada, Coker-Aguda, Yaba and Ajah. Others are: Cele, Ibeju-Lekki, Odogunyan, Oko-Afo, Badagry, Ojota, Agbowa, Alausa, Anthony, Suru-Alaba, Omorege- Alaba, LASU, UNILAG, and a Mobile Centre. Fashola commended motorists for their quick response, as witnessed in the 388 inspections conducted between Tuesday, January 4 and Friday, January 7, at Ojodu, a far cry from what was obtained before the January 1, 2022 commencement date of the policy. He solicited more turnouts from motorists, urging them to take advantage of accessibility of centres. 