• Team departs for Cameroun
The Federal Government has charged the Super Eagles to strike gold in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), which kicks off in Cameroun on Sunday. The Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Sunday Dare, made the declaration on Tuesday night at the sent forth for the team held at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. Dare in an address read by Clem Agba, Minister of State for Finance, Budget and National Planning said: “Three times we have been champions of Africa by winning the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), that was in 1980, 1994 and 2013, and many other times we have ended as losing finalists and bronze medalists. This time around, we want you to strike gold in Cameroun on February 6, 2022, when the tournament’s final match will be played. “We have followed your preparations for this tournament, and have seen the challenges that you have faced with the late release from your clubs, the COVID-19 protocols, injuries and other factors. We urge you not to be deterred, and rather, see these obstacles as stepping-stones to your success and glory. We are also appealing to you to demonstrate that Nigerian spirit of determination, focus, resilience, discipline and conquest on and off the pitch,” he said. Dare said the Super Eagles are being sent forth as Nigerian ambassadors and worthy representatives to Cameroun. “Mr President believes this Super Eagles squad has the skills and talents to excel at the AFCON in Cameroun, and over 200 million Nigerians are fully behind you”. He also urged the players to have self-belief and trust in the coaching crew led by Augustine Eguavoen. “You have to believe in yourselves. Be confident in your own abilities and show trust in your coaches and officials. “As you carry the hopes and aspirations of millions of Nigerians, be assured of the support of the Federal Government. “Be patriotic, defend the green, white, green colour of Nigeria, fight for her pride and honour like the true soldiers and warriors that you are, and we will celebrate you further upon your return,” Dare added. Nigeria’s campaign in Cameroun begins January 11 against Egypt in Garoua. 