Sir: What is reduced to ‘‘the impossible code’’ in the above topic may be elaborated to be certain cultural creeds, superstitious and religious beliefs, primitive societal value system, etc, to which many average humans attach so much importance and regard to the extent that it, unknowingly, affects their lives, often negatively. For example, it can limit them from achieving greater progress. The souvenir I took back home from attending the eighth days Fidau prayers of a 43-years old fellow alumni, may be intangible but quite valued to sustain my entire long life on earth. It is simply the fact that life achievements and values should not be measured by the number of houses one owns or plush cars or simply put material resources at one’s disposal. Rather, our indispensability and significance should be eternally pegged to how many persons we are able to impact on positively; those whose lives improved not because we are merely existing but indeed due to the fact that we are productively living. Must we wait for a political putsch in Nigeria to break out before the proper actions are taken by the current political players? They flourish unduly because the status quo is retrogressive and tolerant of their awful conduct and characters. Shall we not, as the group of intellectuals and concerned citizens continue to stick out our necks, for the economic, social and political emancipation of the citizenry irrespective of the odds we stand to encounter?  The salvation of Nigeria as a country may indeed be found in the hands of her available awesome children who are genius and great exploit makers. More than using their efficient weapons of literary empowerment and proper occupational grooming, the distinguishing factor creditable to this uncommon set of people is, in the words of Adam Smith, their harmony with Creative Destruction.’ Creative Destruction is simply the arrival of an advanced idea which is capable of displacing the former version but stands to be rejected and resisted by the proponents of the outgoing system. In the present world order, analog systems have been successfully displaced by the digital counterparts. This progression, nay evolution can nobody afford to withhold its happening; one can only avail himself of his or her practical involvement and active participation thereof. The national tendency of indolence and laxity inbred in every human being should be conquered forthwith basically with the deliberate and purposeful will power to be your better version. The assertion of our esteemed regard should be earned and not lobbied for or agitatedly received. History is replete with eminent individuals and people who lived beyond boundaries set by certain grievous human laws and codes meant to limit the gullible and docile ones. Without prejudice to the man made barriers and blockades, therefore, let us as individuals and group of individuals, devise ways and formulas to bring to bear our objective capabilities for the welfare of all and sundry. Steve Obum Orajiaku. 