• Rights Group Wants Miyetti Cattle Owners Declared As Terrorists 
Former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has condemned the carnage perpetrated by terrorists in Zamfara State. In a statement signed by Olu Onemola of his Media Odia Office in Abuja, Saraki said: “My heart goes out to the families and communities that have experienced the tragic loss and injury of loved ones, the destruction of their property, and the interruption of their livelihoods. “Today, as we all mourn these terrible attacks in both Anka and Bukkuyum local councils of Zamfara State, we owe the families and all other affected communities across the nation a brighter future. “In January 2013, during the #SaveBagega lead poisoning crisis, I spent some time with the people of Anka Local Council. There, I met a determined and resilient community that worked hard to build a buoyant local economy. “Today, that same vibrant community has become a place of carnage. My heart is heavy, and truly there’s anger too because we cannot continue like this. We must find long-lasting solutions to this insecurity. We will. “I believe that this brighter future is possible because I have experienced first-hand the desire and enthusiasm that the people in Anka, Bukkuyum and other similar communities have shown for a better life and a more secure future. “It is my prayer that with lasting peace and determined leadership, a place such as Anka can one day become one of the highest income per capita communities in Nigeria. However, for this to happen, we must be decisive, thorough, and relentless about securing the lives and property of all Nigerians.” In a related development, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has expressed shock over the callousness and crude wickedness of terrorists, who unleashed venomous and blood cuddling violence on innocent villagers in Zamfara State. It would be recalled that over 200 persons were said to have been killed in the Anka and Bukkuyum local councils of Zamfara State by fleeing bandits. The group also demanded Governor Bello Matawalle’s resignation for his failure to secure villagers in his state. The group also said that if these killings happened in a civilised society, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) would have either resigned or sacked by the President. HURIWA, in a statement authorised by the National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, also condemned killings attributed to herdsmen in Isiuzo Local Council of Enugu State. It urged the Southeast governors to adopt a regional approach to secure the Igbo-speaking region and back efforts by the Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to check incessant terror attacks by armed Fulani terrorists in the state. Meanwhile, the group urged President Muhammadu Buhari to declare Miyetti Allah Cattle Owners Association as a terrorist group. “There is no difference between Miyetti Allah Cattle Sellers Association and armed bandits , who were recently declared as terrorists by the Federal High Court, Abuja division…” it said. The rights group also backed the call by Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, that Miyetti Allah ought to have been declared a terrorist group earlier. HURIWA alleged Miyetti Allah members were the suspected in the killing of three persons in Molege, an agrarian settlement in Ose Local Council of Ondo State. 