When his media office released an 80-member transition panel, many commentators saw a hint at possible Bola Tinubu style administration, which drew cabinet membership from across the Southwest geopolitical zone and beyond.
   
As the committee members continued to elicit reactions, one unmistakable feature of the unfolding scenario was that the incoming Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, would people his cabinet with what one local called Ndi-oboboakwukwo (intellectuals).  Apart from the governance aspect, it was also obvious that the former Central Bank Governor plans to deconstruct the politics of Anambra State in such a way to reflect its status as the centre of Southeast political economy.
 
Many observers said the composition of the transition left the impression that Soludo plans to replicate Tinubu’s tactics in Lagos by incorporating persons from outside Anambra State, including notable rights activists. Former National President of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) and member of the National Political Consultation Front, Dr. Olisah Agbakoba appearing on the list earned the panel the moniker, the ‘Solution Transition Team.’  ‘A’ List For ‘A’ State
THE calibre of men and women drawn from different backgrounds could best be attested to by the citation of the committee chairman, Dr. Ezekwesili. An Economic Policy Expert, Ezekwesili is Senior Economic Adviser of the Africa Economic Development Policy Initiative and one of the co-founders and pioneer directors of Transparency International (TI), the Berlin-based global anti-corruption organisation.
  
Ezekwesili, who is the founder and chairperson of the Board of Abuja-based School of Politics, Policy and Governance (SPPG) featured in the 2019 General Elections as a presidential standard-bearer. Also, she is currently founder-CEO of Human Capital Africa (HCA) which is working in the education sector across Africa.  Cracking The Governance/Politics Codes
THE presence of such persons as Engineer Chris Okoye of Southeast Development Commission (SEDC) inspires the possibility that the Soludo administration would tackle politics and development squarely.
 
SEDC had been in the forefront of propagating the economic integration of Southeast, particularly after Chief Chekwas Okorie led the way in founding a political platform for Ndigbo in 2002. Okoye and his group were also involved in conversations around restructuring and its benefits to Southeast.  However, in his remarks during the inauguration of the transition committee, Prof. Soludo noted the observations of critics that the “bloated transition team seems to underscore the high expectations from the incoming administration, even as it leaves the impression of possible waste through the attendant high cost of governance.”
 
He stated: “The global objective of the transition committee is to help the government and the governor-elect to achieve a seamless transition and we are ready to hit the ground running from day one. The task would be elaborated, but three stand out.  And in a bold statement against the culture of sycophancy and unnecessary praise-singing, Soludo, who disclosed that the committee would look into the necessity of the His Excellency appellation, said he preferred to be addressed simply as Charlie or Nwamgbafor or Prof. Soludo or Mr. Governor.
  
But the main staggerer was the governor-elect’s position that those who want to be appointed commissioners should put in applications detailing what solutions they were ready to bring on board. 