Plans second phase of Occupy Nigeria
A Labour and socialist movement, The People’s Alternative Political Movement (TPAP-M), has rejected the planned hike in the prices of gas and petrol as well as electricity tariff. It also demanded the reversal of the power sector privatisation done by the previous administration. TPAP-M, a coalition of individuals and organisations committed to the emergence and building of a Mass Workers’ Party, and the Socialist Transformation of Nigeria, stated this during a press conference organised at Abope Chamber, Ibadan, Oyo State. Oyo State Chairman of TPAP-M, Ibrahim Mohammed, and Rasheedat Adesina, disclosed that it would hold Occupy Nigeria Phase II to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the first phase and to demand the reversal of the current obnoxious policies of the government. The activists said: “We reject, in its totality, the hike in the price of gas and the impending hike in the price of petrol and electricity tariff. We insist that Nigerians cannot and must not be punished for the failures and incompetence of the ruling class and this regime in ensuring access to affordable energy and adequate security. “We demand that past and present managements of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) and the four moribund refineries be prosecuted for their crass incompetence that has resulted in the failure, since 2012, at least, to turn around the fortunes of the refineries and make them work at optimum capacity, thus contributing significantly to Nigeria’s inability to acquire adequate domestic refining capacity.” According to the state secretary of the movement, who doubles as state secretary of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ibrahim Mohammed, the national labour union cannot be trusted; hence, the emergence of the movement. The movement also demanded total reversal of the power sector privatisation, and the re-nationalisation of the power sector, bringing it under the control and management of key stakeholders, including workers and electricity consumers. Rejecting the estimated billing system, which it described as arbitrary, exploitative and fraudulent, TPAP-M demanded a programme and investment plan that would ensure the metering of all electricity consumers within the next 12 months. The Guardian gathered that the movement and its allies will organise a week of mobilisation and awareness raising from Monday, January 17, culminating in mass rallies and processions to deliver protest letters on Friday, January 21. “To commemorate the 10th anniversary of Occupy Nigeria and to build up momentum towards generalised mass protests across the country to resist the impending hikes in fuel price and electricity tariff, and the unfolding hike of the price of gas, TPAP-M and her allies will organise a public lecture on Saturday, January 15, 2022.” 