Ministers of Agriculture of Africa and the Americas have promised their commitment to work together, to develop a cooperation agenda, to address common challenges and opportunities with respect to transforming their agrifood systems for sustainability and inclusiveness.
 
The agreement was reached during the First High-Level Roundtable between Africa and the Americas, convened and organised by the Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) and the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA), entitled “Building Bridges for Future Cooperation in Agrifood Systems.”
 
The participants at the virtual event agreed that, beyond the cultural and historical similarities and differences between the Americas and Africa, the continents face a unique and common challenge: that of building knowledge-intensive agriculture, with a human face, while caring for the environment and considering the areas of nutrition and health, which, they agreed, is necessary to produce more and higher quality food.  Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply of Brazil, Tereza Cristina agreed that there is room to engage in valuable cooperation between the two continents. “It is crucial to simultaneously address agriculture and food security, as well as to reflect on free and fair agricultural trade and sustainability.”  She was also critical of the “protectionism of developed countries, which has hindered the capacity of developing countries to consolidate on modern and dynamic food production”. Former Prime Minister, Republic of Ethiopia and President of AGRA’s Board of Directors, Hailemariam Desalegn, noted that, with support from Brazil, his country has achieved positive results in the fight against hunger, noting that African countries are eager to share experiences with Latin American and Caribbean nations.
 
“African economies have grown in recent decades, reflected in their agrifood systems, despite catastrophes such as droughts and floods and, most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic. As a region, Africa lacks access to modern technologies and mechanized tools that allow for increasing productive variety and quality as well as expanding the percentage of arable land…” he said. 