 FIFA (www.FIFA.com) President hosts the Vice-President of the European Commission Margaritis Schinas in Zurich to discuss several key topics; Vice-President Schinas was also joined by the EU Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein Petros Mavromichalis as part of his delegation; Among the topics on the agenda were the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022™ and the future of football.  FIFA President Gianni Infantino has hosted a high-level delegation, led by the Vice-President of the European Commission Margaritis Schinas, to Zurich for bilateral discussions on a host of key issues around football, society and the development of the global game. The exchange provided both parties with the opportunity to discuss several important topics that are relevant to football across the globe, such as the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, proposals related to the international match calendar, international transfer system reforms, and FIFA’s ongoing work in creating the first ever independent international safe sports entity. “Thanks to the FIFA World Cup a profound change is taking place in Qatar – leading the way for the region to follow,” the FIFA President said. “As independent international experts have repeatedly stated, almost never in history has a state accomplished such profound reforms in such a short time.” “FIFA appreciates the opportunity to have an open and constructive dialogue with the European Commission,” the FIFA President added. “The European Commission is an important partner both in Europe and worldwide in many aspects related to the development of football, from our ongoing work in creating the first ever independent international safe sports entity, to the reforms of the international transfer system and in relation to the ongoing dialogue surrounding the international match calendar.” Commenting on the visit, Vice-President Schinas said: “As we begin 2022 we enter a very important year for us all. For sport, for Europe and for young people across the world. It is the European Year for Youth, and the year will end with the FIFA World Cup – always a joyous moment of European and global solidarity. “I welcome President Infantino discussing openly with us the progress that has been made in Qatar since 2010, as well as the opportunity to discuss the future of football consultation process, the international transfer system reform plans and the honourable work being done to ensure all those involved in sport can do so in a safe and secure way.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FIFA. Contact for African media: AfricanMedia@fifa.org