It was an atmosphere of joy and celebration as the Baba Oja (market leader) of Ladipo Auto Spare Parts Market, Mushin, High Chief Monday Lawrence Obijiogu (JP) celebrated his birthday. The occasion was graced by friends, well-wishers and business associates. Born in Mushin to Igbo parents from Mgbidi in the present Imo State of Nigeria, Obijiogu was made Baba Oja of Ladipo Market by the present Iyaloja of Nigeria, Chief (Mrs) Folashade Tinubu- Ojo, who saw him a bridge-builder and peacemaker, able to resolve conflicts between the Igbo and Yoruba in the market. This was attributed to his deep knowledge and eloquence in speaking both languages, which has been yielding countless positive results. Obijiogu affirmed that he has been a politician and member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), combining politics with the administration of the market. He revealed that though the tasks are challenging, he has been able to forge ahead, with the help of his supportive administrative team. When asked if he had contested for any political post in the past or aspiring to do so in 2023, he said he aspired to be a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2019, but was prevailed on by APC leaders to drop his ambition for the present member representing Mushin to complete his second tenure. As for the 2023 general elections, he said he would not contest. On waste management and sanitation in the market, he said the management of the market takes hygiene seriously and ensures traders dispose of their waste weekly via the use of LAWMA and also clean the surrounding drainage pathways and gutters regularly. Asked what he did that brought peace to the market as witnessed presently, he disclosed that as soon as he assumed office as the Baba Oja, he ensured all the criminals like cultists, fraudsters and other notorious elements were flushed from the market. He said some are even languishing in jail presently adding that the efforts brought peace, unity and dignity to Ladipo market. Speaking on the areas he wanted the government’s intervention, he said the government should assist in the construction of three public toilets for the convenience of traders and customers. He also appealed to the state government to construct a pedestrian bridge at Toyota Bus Stop to address the incessant fatal accidents. In the area of philanthropy, he said he had long established a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in honour of his father called Lawrence Obijiogu Foundation. Through the foundation, he said he had given scholarships to students and provided employment for many youths in Lagos and other parts of the country. He added that he has also empowered youths with more than one hundred minibuses to make them gainfully employed. He applauded Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his relentless efforts aimed at improving the lives of Lagosians through providing basic social amenities.