• Police foil kidnap operation in Kaduna, rescue 16
• Why banditry in Zamfara may not end soon, by gov
• Benue monarchs seek decentralised police recruitment Another paramount ruler has been kidnapped in Vwang district of Jos South Local Council of Plateau State. The Da Gwom Rwei of Vwang, HRH Gyang Gut, was kidnapped on Sunday night on his way home to Vom, few metres from the gate of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos. Confirming the incident, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Ogaba, said they had mobilised personnel to the area to rescue the monarch. According to a family source, the kidnappers are demanding N10 million ransom. HOWEVER, in Kaduna State, the police rescued 16 victims from kidnappers in Buruku Area of Birnin-Gwari Local Council. The PPRO of Kaduna, ASP Muhammad Jalige, said the command through its Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Buruku, received information that some persons were sighted around Masallaci area along Birnin-Gwari road, who were suspected to be kidnap victims. “The DPO immediately mobilised personnel on rescue mission to the area. On sighting the advancing troops, the hoodlums took to their heels, leaving behind 16 victims whom the operatives successfully rescued,” he said. GOVERNOR Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State has stated that banditry in his state may not end soon because of the individuals behind the menace. Matawalle spoke to newsmen after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. While noting that he visited the scenes of the attacks, he blamed ‘political bandits’ for the unverified figures.
TRADITIONAL rulers in Benue State have called on the Federal Government to decentralise police recruitment in the country. The monarchs disclosed this at the Community Engagement Forum organised by the Police Service Commission (PSC) in Makurdi. On the other hand, the PSC has lamented that most applicants for recruitment into the police were academically challenged, leading to the dismal performance of candidates seeking enlistment into the force. The Commissioner, representing Human Rights and NGOs at PSC, Rommy Mom, who disclosed this at the one-day session, noted that 90 per cent of applicants failed to score up to 30 per cent at the examinations set for them. He explained that this and other challenges were what the commission sought to correct in future recruitment exercises. 