Download logo Twenty-three Prospective Barristers, have been admitted today as new members of the Bar Council. The swearing-in ceremony was held, this afternoon, at the New Supreme Court Building, in Port Louis, in the presence of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Mauritius, Mrs Rehana Bibi Mungly-Gulbul, and several dignitaries.  In her address, the Chief Justice congratulated the Barristers for their well-deserved success and achievement. ‘Your admission to the Bar marks the beginning of a new chapter in your life as you now form part of a highly respected and noble profession,’ she pointed out. Mrs Mungly-Gulbul highlighted that as per the Code of Ethics, Barristers should refrain from engaging in any conduct that may diminish public confidence in the legal profession and they should be guided by principles such as honesty, integrity and strict compliance with the highest professional norms both in and out of Court. Furthermore, the Chief Justice underlined that the Bar has historically played a prominent role in upholding the rule of law in Mauritius and in fighting fearlessly for the safeguard of the rights of our citizens before our Courts. She accentuated on the duty of Barristers as Counsels to defend their client vigorously to the best of their abilities and to firmly raise every issue, submit any argument and put all questions which are relevant and material to their client’s case in order to serve the cause of justice in accordance with the law. As regards the practice of law in Mauritius, Mrs Mungly-Gulbul indicated that it has not only become more complex, but also more competitive with a larger number of new Barristers joining the Bar over the recent years. ‘You will hence be required to display a high standard of skills as well as a sound knowledge of the complexities of our law to be able to practice at the Bar,’ she added. The Chief Justice urged the new Barristers to consider the human factor further to the need for hard work, commitment and sacrifice. ‘As the new generation, you represent the future and we look forward to you with hope, faith and confidence for maintaining and enhancing the values which you have inherited by joining the Bar,’ she concluded. The twenty-three new members admitted to the Bar are as follows: Mr Allybocus Muhammad Waakid; Ms Badabhai Saniyya Mohammad Saïd; Ms Bhayro Luxmi Pooja; Ms Dahoo Diksha; Mrs Dawoonauth-Ramruttun Preety; Mr Fakim Junaid Haroon; Ms Gobin Sneh Tareshvee; Ms Gonpot Chavi; Ms Govinden Karina Veroushka; Mr Hein Stephane Adrien Jules; Mr Lo Fan Hin Derek Andrew; Ms Maistry Dushinee; Ms Mallam-Hasham Samia Farah; Mr Mannikum Dylan; Ms Mukoon Shaimaa Nabeelah; Ms Narsinghen Kunasegaree; Mr Poinoosawmy Jaiprashanth; Mr Purmessur Kaushik; Mrs Rengasamy Soubashini; Mr Roopun Abhishek Ranveersing; Mr Sinatambou Louis Mathieu; Mr Tarachand Shravan Lanshil And; Mr Tirvassen Vanessen. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of Mauritius.