National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu, has boasted that the party will produce the next president of the country. He said the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government, which, according to him, has pulled the country backwards economically, has to be changed. Ayu gave the assurance at the gala night hosted by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for the PDP governors in Government House, Port Harcourt on Sunday night. The PDP national chairman emphasised that the APC leadership had been unable to harness the rich diversity of Nigerians that should strengthen the bond of brotherhood and promote peaceful coexistence. “Unfortunately, a very poor leadership has presented Nigeria at home and abroad as an extremely divided country. “We must change this narrative and the only way to change this narrative and harness not just the culture, but the environment and the richness therein, is to back the Peoples Democratic Party, which is determined to produce a new leadership for this country.” The PDP national chairman stated that the expected leadership would change the negative characteristics associated with the APC that have been used to deepen the divide among Nigerians in the country. “The PDP will definitely produce the next president and take the country back to the days when we were in power, when we cleared all foreign debts, when we were developing this country at reasonable speed, and when we became the richest country on the African continent.” In his welcome address, Wike said the meeting was used to discuss salient issues of economy, politics, and others that bother on how to chart a virile Nigerian society. “It has been ritual for PDP governors to gather and meet and discuss about the welfare of the party. And this has been rotating from one state to the other.” Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, said the governors’ forum and other party leaders were already working in synergy towards rebuilding the party. He said the focus is to rescue Nigeria, which will also require all Nigerians of goodwill to join force with the PDP to achieve that goal. He said: There are two divides in Nigeria today. Those who are happy with the confusion because they are benefiting from what is happening at the centre, and those of us who are truly patriotic enough to disagree with the way our country is being governed. “I appeal and beseech every Nigerian, even those in APC that are patriotic enough, to join hands with us as we continue to march towards rescuing Nigeria together.” Governors present at the gala night were Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Mohammed Bala (Bauchi), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu). Also in attendance were the Deputy Governors of Rivers and Zamfara, Dr. Ipalibo Harry-Banigo and Mahdi Aliyu Mohammed Gusau; PDP national secretary, Senator Sam Anyanwu, among others. 