The early elimination of the Super Eagles from the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon has put a huge question mark on the aspirations of some individuals in Nigeria’s football circle, on and off the field of play. Top on the list is the alleged third term bid by president of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick. Also on the losing side from the defeat to Tunisia in the round of 16 is the interim coach, Augustine Eguavoen, who had the backing of millions of Nigerians to take the Super Eagles job on a permanent basis if he had succeeded in Cameroon. Team captain, Ahmed Musa, is also likely to be affected. Musa, whose inclusion in the team to Cameroon raised some questions from many football-loving Nigerians, may have played his last Africa Cup of Nations. He was part of the team that won the title with late coach Stephen Keshi at South Africa 2013. His last attempt to lift the trophy and make history as the only Nigerian player to win the trophy twice hit the rocks three years ago in Egypt, where the Super Eagles lost to Algeria in the semifinals before Monday’s defeat by Tunisia. The team to Cameroon enjoyed the support of the Presidency, as well as the Sports Ministry, just as some corporate organisations and individuals also supported the team with cash and materials. But all the largesse went with the defeat by Tunisia. And so, the various state FA chairmen, who were looking forward to pocketing huge estacodes during the duration of the competition, were left ruing the abrupt termination of their stay in Cameroon. The Guardian learnt shortly before the Super Eagles’ departure from their Hotel Le Rebadou in Garoua on Tuesday evening that major discussion by stakeholders suddenly changed from Super Eagles defeat to Pinnick’s alleged third term agenda. Those who spoke with The Guardian were of the opinion that Super Eagles early elimination from the tournament might work against it (Pinnick’s alleged third term agenda). One official said: “Even before now, some stakeholders and state FA chairmen were openly against it. Though, there are some who feel there is the need to support the bid because, to them, Pinnick needs it to function well as a member of FIFA Council.
 
“But I can tell you that all that calculations have changed with this poor performance here in Cameroon. I can’t remember when last the Super Eagles were eliminated in the round of 16. Pinnick has to go.” The Guardian recalls that Pinnick had vowed never to seek a third term as NFF president when he made history by becoming the third Nigerian to be elected into the FIFA Council. The other two former occupants of the position were the late Orok Oyo Orok and Dr. Amos Adamu. Pinnick is the first Nigerian to get two terms as NFF president since the return of democracy in 1999, following his re-election in 2018.