• BetKing dangles N100m worth of prizes for customers to watch AFCON
Former Super Eagles captain, Austin Jay Jay Okocha, has said that the decision by some European clubs and coaches to stop African players from participating in Cameroon 2022 African Nations Cup is most unfair. Okocha, who is a member of the Super Eagles Technical Support Group, spoke with journalists yesterday in Lagos during a ceremony organised by BetKing, which announced N100m worth of prize for its existing and new customers to watch AFCON matches. Okocha, who is brand ambassador of BetKing, stated that the action by some European clubs and coaches preventing some key players from representing their countries at Cameroon 2022 AFCON is against football rules. “The AFCON has always been in January, and it is criminal for these European clubs to stop African players from being part of the competition,” Okocha said. “These same clubs and coaches won’t stop their players from taking part in European competitions. They even cheer their players during EURO championship.” Okocha said the Super Eagles still have what it takes to win the AFCON title in Cameroon despite the absence of some key players. The sports and digital entertainment company, Betking, yesterday gave four customers the chance to watch the AFCON final in Cameroon. The Betking ‘AFKON Promotion’ will run from January 9 to February 6, 2022. BetKing online and offline customers also stand a chance to win 40-inch Hisense Smart TV sets, several PlayStation 5, free betting credit, smartphones, and the grand prize of a JAC S2 SUV for three lucky customers While showing the grand prize to journalists, the BetKing brand ambassador, Okocha, stated that as a football junkie, and with the mouth-watering prizes, there was no better time to be a punter. Okocha added that the brand has made it easier for new and existing customers by creating two special shows in partnership with Pulse Sports by engaging professionals and tipsters that will guide players with facts and how to place their bets. Managing Director, KingMakers, Gossy Ukanwoke, explained that to participate in the ‘BetKing AFKON Promotion,’ customers are required to place a bet of a minimum of N500 on an accumulator with at least 5 selections, at 1.20 odds per selection. “The bet must include one Africa Cup of Nations 2021 event among other terms and conditions, which are listed on the BetKing website. He explained that: “When you place a bet with little and get more, that’s the AFKON feeling, and that’s BetKing. “We have replaced the ‘C’ in AFCON with a ‘K’ in our campaign. This is a deliberate move to celebrate the tournament, which is undoubtedly the ‘King of all tournaments in African football’ that showcases the biggest stars from around the continent who are the ‘Kings of African football,’ and we are rewarding the biggest supporters of the sport, our customers, who are ‘Kings.” On his part, Head of BTL Marketing, Oludare Kafar, said that BetKing agents were not left out, as the best-performing agents will also be rewarded with an all-expense-paid trip to AFCON. 