Mountain of Fire and Miracles Football Club’s Coach, Shola Balogun, has a Herculean task in his hands when his team clashes with Rivers United today in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The match holds at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere. The Olukoya Boys, who are currently second from the bottom of the table, will be hoping to tame ‘The Pride of Rivers’ to boost their chances of rising on the table against a team that is yet to lose a game and are currently occupying the second spot on the log. One record that should frighten the Lagos-based team is the away feat of their visitors, who created an upset by defeating one of the favourites for the league title, Enyimba of Aba on the road. The Lagos-based team currently has five points after winning two matches, drawing none and losing four games, including a home game in the season’s opener against leaders, Remo Stars FC. The visitors, on the other hand, have won three matches, drew three and lost none to amass 12 points. That notwithstanding, MFM FC forward, Muyiwa Balogun, still believes in his team’s ability to upturn the table by beating the Port Harcourt-based team. “Right now, we are not happy with our performance due to where we are right now on the table. And this is because we have lost three away games and one game at home. That is football for you, but I still believe we are going to come up by God’s grace. “As for our game tomorrow (today) against Rivers United, I believe we will definitely put in a 100 per cent effort to make sure we get the three points. I know we will get back to the top of the table by God’s grace. I am certain we are going to win our game against Rivers United,” he stated. Other matches held today will see Katsina United welcome Lobi Stars, Enyimba against Akwa United, Gombe United versus Sunshine Stars and Niger Tornadoes against Sunshine Stars at the Minna stadium. Kwara United will host Kano Pillars, Heartland is against Rangers, Remo Stars are at home to Abia Warriors, Dakkada will entertain Wikki Tourists, while Plateau United will welcome Nasarawa United.