In order to improve the security situation of the FCT, the Federal Capital Territory Administration has made it mandatory for real estate developers to install CCTV cameras in housing estates as well as ensure compliance with environmental standards in and around the estates, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mal Muhammad Musa Bello has said. The Minister, who made the disclosure during the commissioning of Cosgrove Smart Estate, Wuye, Abuja, said “it will be mandatory for all estates in the FCT to deploy CCTV Cameras and also provide security lights on the perimeter fences,” adding that the lights should be solar-driven in order to enable government realize its carbon emission targets. He commended the developer for integrating technology into real estate development in Nigeria. While saying that government will ensure that estates are managed properly, he noted that emphasis will be on security and environmental matters. “He expressed delight in the ability of the indigenous company to achieve a “great leap forward” in the evolution of the housing sector by satisfactorily delivering the top-of-the-range-homes in the FCT, noting that it gives impetus to the primary mandate of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), which the minister said is “the development of a world class national capital for Nigeria that we would all be proud of as Nigerians and as Africans.” The Minister explained that the FCTA pays serious attention to infrastructure development in the city, adding that the housing sub sector is the most dynamic and vibrant with the active participation of the organised private sector who deploy world class designs, new building technology, and innovations. “Cosgrove is leading the pioneering of integration of technology in real estate, and we are very proud of the good work the company is doing,” the minister said, noting that the FCT is now home to an increasing number of young professionals and upwardly mobile Nigerians who are heeding President Muhammadu Buhari’s call to invest in the country. “I salute the vision, courage and tenacity of Cosgrove for developing Wuye Smart Estate in a manner that satisfies the benchmark for infrastructure development,” the minister said, adding that “it is impressive that Cosgrove is a wholly indigenous company that employs several Nigerians and foreign professionals as skilled and semiskilled workers, thereby serving as a vehicle for jobs and wealth creation and security provision by taking youths off the streets.” The minister explained that the growth and development of indigenous companies are invaluable in the advancement of local construction industry, and national economic progress. He pledged the readiness of the administration to continue to work with local and foreign investors to realise set goals.
The minister explained that “Abuja was designed to ensure that 40% of the landmass remains under green vegetation,” adding that it has been extremely difficult to attain the goal. He therefore commended Cosgrove for deploying renewable technology in the Wuye Smart Estate, noting that it is in line with current international conventions on climate change.” “With the ability of Cosgrove to leverage on technology, the Ministry of the Federal Capital Territory will remain a strong partner of Cosgrove, and I call on Cosgrove and other construction companies to make adequate provision for gardens and parks, and also plant enough trees, shrubs and flowers in the estate.” Chief Executive Officer, Cosgrove Investment Limited, Mr Umar Abdullahi said the delivery and commissioning of Cosgrove Smart Estate, Wuye, represents a long-held dream of both management and staff of Cosgrove, assuring that Cosgrove will continue to focus on pioneering the integration of technology in real estate development in Nigeria. He said the estate which sits on 4.35 hectares of prime real estate land, is the first Smart Estate in the FCT, adding that it leverages on the Internet of Things (IoT). “Cosgrove will remain committed to providing housing solution to a discerning clientele who desire high standard of living, and seek to maximize the potentials of 21st century technology,” the Chairman added. While he assured that homeowners will enjoy superlative smart living, the Chairman discussed the unique features of the estate as consisting of Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered cameras which serve as a security deterrent to help secure lives and property, Smart Access Management System, dedicated unattended pedestrian entry and exit point managed by AI security cameras and biometric systems, unmanned vehicle access powered by AI enabled Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) and physical access barriers, Fibre To The Home (FTTH) supported by full fibre optic cabling infrastructure on which Cosgrove’s advanced technology gadget rides on. The commissioned estate also has Smart IR beam sensors for perimeter outdoor security alarm system. The chairman said that residents enjoy Fibre to the Home, giving them seamless access to the internet.
Minister of Youth and Sport, Chief Sunday and Dare described Cosgrove as an enabler of youth development, stating that its ability to employ large number youth showcases the determination to contribute to youth development. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola who was represented by Arc Solomon Labafino recalled that at a previous visit to Cosgrove Smart Estate, Wuye, he expressed satisfaction with the quality of work and deployment of integrated technology.
Fashola commend the management of Cosgrove for demonstrating unwavering commitment to the development of real estate sector, aimed at increasing the housing stock for Abuja residents.. “I have no doubt that the automation will do so much to reduce energy use, thereby reducing cost of living,” the minister added.