The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has confirmed the country’s readiness for another safety audit by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) this quarter. The Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme’s (USOAP) Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) is the programme of ICAO to promote global aviation safety via regular auditing of contracting States. Director General of NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu, at the opening of training programme for the League of Aviation and Airport Correspondents (LAAC), ongoing at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria, said preparations were in top gear and Nigeria is sure to retain its safety status. He said: “On the heels of proactiveness, existing regime of robust regulations and over eight year of zero accident in commercial flight operation, we are primed to excel again.” The DG, who was represented by the Assistant General Manager in the Directorate of Air Transport Regulations (DATR) of Kaduna Regional Office of NCAA, Lulufa Vongtau, rallied all the media stakeholders behind the progamme. “From now on, all your reports are very sensitive. Let us eschew sensationalism that is capable of putting the nation in a bad light. Therefore, I will advise anyone to endeavour to verify and confirm stories before publishing, if in doubt. It is my view that your watchdog role plays a very important part in fostering stability in the industry. “These balancing, developmental and promotional stories are the hallmark of a burgeoning aviation industry like ours. Let us present our aviation industry as the most improved that it is. “There is no doubt that there is increased confidence in the sector as new airlines are coming in and existing operators are expanding their routes. Expectedly, our coast of surveillance programme and other oversight responsibilities as the regulator of the industry have increased correspondingly,” he said. Chairman of LAAC, Olusegun Koiki, expressed appreciation to the NCAA DG for his prompt support for the programme and other agencies such as Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). 