There’s is tension in Imo State, as Governor Hope Uzodimma disclosed that the state government has uncovered alleged sponsors and financiers of killings, unknown gunmen and insecurity in the state. Following the development, the governor will brief the people today during the sixth edition of the stakeholders interactive meeting. The Guardian also learnt that Webinar zoom services would be created for those outside the venue and other parts of the world. It would be recalled that no fewer than five traditional rulers were killed and others maimed or kidnapped last year. Also last year, bandits invaded the Owerri Correctional Centre and freed over 1,800 inmates of which over 1,000 are still at large. The police headquarters in Owerri was also bombed, and cars and equipment destroyed, while scores of policemen and civilians were killed. Security has been beefed at the Government House and other parts of Owerri, as well as exit and entry points of the city, just as Uzodimma’s country home in Omuma, Oru East Council, has been secured with security operatives. There had been palpable tension since the governor hinted last year that he would name the sponsors of insecurity in the state. There is also a strong presence of joint security operatives at the entrance of the Government House, Owerri and its environs, as visitors are thoroughly checked. Meanwhile, the venue of the briefing was suddenly changed from the Ahiajoku Convention Centre at New Owerri to the Government House in the belief that the Government House would enhance security during the meeting. Separate statements issued by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Cosmas Iwu and the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, yesterday, confirmed the stakeholders meeting and change of venue. “The governor will use the forum to name sponsors and financiers of insecurity, as the state government has evidence of the involvement of those responsible for banditry in the state.” “The governor will also brief Imo people on his performance in the last two years. The stakeholders meeting and luncheon will now hold at Government House and not the Ahajioku Convention Centre by 12:000 noon today. “The meeting, which is the sixth in the series is crucial, because of the weighty issues that will be discussed,” the statement reads. It urged all invited guests to sit before the governor’s arrival.