Activities at the commercial city of Kano were yesterday, brought to a halt as tricycle operators popularly known as Adaidaita-Sahu, embarked on a seven-day warning strike against yearly registration number imposed on them by the state government.
 
Many traders, who heavily depend on Keke Napep operators, for their accessibility and affordability, had hectic time transporting their goods due to their absence.
 
Also, many commuters resorted to trekking long distances to get to their destination. Narrating his ordeal, a trader, Adamu Inuwa said,  he was forced  to trek from Gaida quarters down to Kwari Market as he waited for more than two hours without getting a commercial vehicle to transport him to the market. He said: “Before the strike, it cost me just N70 to board Adaidaita-Sahu from my place to the market, but, now with even N500, I can’t get  transport to my working place. “I have to trek to the market, about four kilometres.  I don’t think I will get a vehicle back to my house in the evening.
“I call on government to meet with these tricycle operators to resolve the crisis amicably.”
  
A leader of tricycle owners, who spoke in confidence, said the government ‘s directive to the operators to pay an annual fee of N8,500, through Kano Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA) did not go down well with their members, given the current economic hardship in the country.
 
Apart from traders and workers, school pupils and students of tertiary institutions, who just resumed were stranded at various bus stops. Many were seen trekking back home.
  
As a result of the strike, chairman of Yusuf Maitama Sule University examination committee, Dr. Yau Datti, has announced suspension of all examinations.
 
Datti said the suspension followed the ongoing industrial action by the tricycle operators. He said: “Sequel to the decision of the Adaidaita-Sahu commercial riders to embark on a strike, the University has decided to suspend all examinations earlier scheduled for between 8:00-11:00a.m. of Monday, January 10, 2022. “The University examination committee will later consult with the Vice Chancellor to decide on the remaining examinations of the day.”