• My best is yet to come, says Moses The Super Eagles are just only one game into their campaign for a fourth African Cup of Nations trophy, but signs of the good things that will happen to the players and their officials have started showing. Nigeria defeated Egypt 1-0 in their opening match on Tuesday and for that feat, the team got N10 million from the Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, Allen Onyema. The airline boss says his gesture is not one-off. Onyema, who addressed the team during half-time of the encounter with Egypt, promised to reward them with N10 million for every goal they score, adding that they will get a further N50 million if they win the trophy. He reminded the players that they are representing over 200 million Nigerians and urged them to give their best to win the trophy. Onyema said: “We believe in what you can do because you have the strength as a team. Remember what I told you during the qualifying series. You are carrying the hopes and aspirations of over 350 ethnic nationalities of our beautiful country. You’re playing for the unity of Nigeria. “This is your time to play your part in cementing the unity of this nation, as Nigerians from North, South, East and West will celebrate in unison. Do us proud and when you come back with the cup, I’m going to give you 50 million naira.” MEANWHILE, Super Eagles winger, Simon Moses, has described his performance in the opening game against Egypt as an example of what he can do at the ongoing African Cup of Nations. The France-based star was the orchestrator of most of Nigeria’s attack against Egypt, with his crosses from the left wing resulting in Kelechi Iheanacho’s winning goal. Speaking ahead of Saturday’s game against Sudan, the Nantes star, who missed the Russia 2018 World Cup due to injury, said he is just getting into his game, adding that his best is yet to come. He said: “The game against Sudan is something we just need to be careful with because now in Africa, there is no small team. “So, of course, we just need to go all in all. The way we took the game against Egypt is the same way we are going to do against Sudan. We have to do our best and give 100 per cent to have three points.” A win for the Eagles against Sudan on Saturday will seal Nigeria’s passage to the round of 16.