• Multi-year deal representing several hundred Mbps • Showcasing yet again satellite as a robust and cost-effective infrastructure to bridge the digital divide PARIS, France, 26 January 2022 -/African Media Agency(AMA)/- Eutelsat Communications (Euronext Paris: ETL) and Intersat, one of Africa’s leading providers of Internet solutions, have signed a multi-year deal representing several hundred Mbps to address the connectivity needs of enterprises, institutions and individuals in Gambia, Guinea Bissau and Senegal. Under the agreement, which represents the totality of the available capacity over these countries, Intersat will leverage the unparalleled coverage and reach of EUTELSAT KONNECT to provide a robust and high-quality Internet service to customers located beyond the limits of terrestrial infrastructure. EUTELSAT KONNECT is a new-generation High Throughput Satellite offering unprecedented operational flexibility, delivering significant resources for broadband services across Africa. Since its full entry into service a year ago, the satellite has enjoyed significant commercial momentum with wholesale and distribution agreements in many of the Continent’s most populous countries. Commenting on the agreement, Aminata Sanyang, Managing Director of Intersat said: “At Intersat we strive to stay at the cutting edge of technology by investing in state-of-the art services that make our customer offer better and faster. We are pleased to integrate Eutelsat’s state of the art in-orbit assets into our suite of solutions to further roll-out our offer of robust, high quality, high speed internet to an ever-growing number of Africans.” Nicolas Baravalle, Eutelsat’s Regional Vice President, Sub-Saharan Africa added: “We are delighted to sign this long-term agreement with Intersat to bring high quality, reliable connectivity to institutions, businesses and consumers currently in the digital divide It reflects the significant demand on the African continent, and the unparalleled assets of the EUTELSAT KONNECT satellite in enabling it to be efficiently met. This contract also highlights the pertinence of Eutelsat’s multi-channel distribution strategy.” Distributed by African Media Agency (AMA) on behalf of Eutelsat. About Eutelsat CommunicationsFounded in 1977, Eutelsat Communications is one of the world’s leading satellite operators. With a global fleet of satellites and associated ground infrastructure, Eutelsat enables clients across Video, Data, Government, Fixed and Mobile Broadband markets to communicate effectively to their customers, irrespective of their location. Around 7,000 television channels operated by leading media groups are broadcast by Eutelsat to one billion viewers equipped for DTH reception or connected to terrestrial networks. Committed to promoting all facets of sustainable development across its business activities, Eutelsat leverages its in-orbit resources to help bridge the digital divide while maintaining a safe and uncluttered space environment. As an attractive and socially responsible employer, Eutelsat assembles 1,200 men and women from 50 countries who are dedicated to delivering the highest quality of service. For more about Eutelsat go to www.eutelsat.com The post EUTELSAT KONNECT satellite selected by Intersat for Internet connectivity over Gambia, Guinea Bissau and Senegal￼ appeared first on African Media Agency.