Tope Adenibuyan, popularly known as Teddy A, is a singer, songwriter, rapper and Big Brother Naija (BBN) season three housemate. The reality TV star and social media influencer is a graduate of the University of Texas, United States of America. He was born in Lagos before moving to the United States where he built his career. Teddy A has a number of hit tracks to his credit and has collaborated and shared a stage with Timaya, P-Square, Wizkid, and Flavour. In this interview with IJEOMA THOMAS-ODIA, he shares his passion for music, marrying a fellow BBN housemate, Bambam, and his love for fashion, among others. When you went into the Big Brother House, were you looking for love, money or fame?
I think it was a mix of fame and money. I had a bit of clout before I got into the Big Brother House so I needed to increase it. Prior to then, I had done a bit of music with Phyno, Henry Kenzo from Uganda at the time, which was one of his biggest songs. So, me moving back to Nigeria, I needed a platform to elevate me to where I wanted to go and that was why I chose the show. How have you evolved over time?
I am a different man now, I am married, I am a father. My family is growing, I am more mature, I am more intentional about what I do, and more responsible. So, it’s a lot of changes and there are some changes that I would take a break to think about if it is what I want to do or I am ready for. But as time goes on, I realise that this is life and if I play my cards right, I will get the best out of life. What should we be expecting from you?
I don’t like to put the cat before the horse, so I always prefer to have the work speak for itself. We have so much lined up; we are filming for a show and once that is out you will see a lot of our plans that cut across business, entertainment, philanthropy and family values. Should we expect more music?
Oh yes. Music is coming, and it is something different even though a few people with inner eyes will know (laughs), but then it is something you have never seen before. I am all for music, acting and business. I am glad that my acting career is growing steadily; bigger and better. More defined roles are coming that tell people what I can do and they position me better. And of course there’s so much music, I am always recording and at the right time, everyone will hear it. Between music and acting, which is your comfort zone?
It is music, any day, anytime. What inspires your songs?
To a large extent, it is the mood, how I feel. My environment influences the sounds I create. It is all about my mental state. And where I am right now, is in the daddy mood and that is where my head is with the creativity in my music; I am more relaxed, at peace and in a good place, hence the music will be different when it comes out. Share with us challenges you have encountered in your journey?
We will always have challenges, but of course, God won’t give you more than what you can handle. He brings it your way because He knows you can handle it. I see life as an examination, you will keep getting tested and when you pass that test, you move to another level. So, there will always be challenges and like I said earlier, having a happy and good place helps you keep going and I just love how I am growing. What does fashion mean to you?
Everything! Just like music. I drink, sleep and eat fashion. It has been a part of me since I was a young boy. Growing up, my mum will always adore me with jewellery. She started buying gold for me from when I was five. I wore gold chains, pierced my ears and her friends who come from Dubai will give me gold jewellery, so I was used to it. My mum and dad were fashionable too, so it came naturally for me. My kids wear jewellery now. What is your favourite local dish?
Give me Egusi with any form of swallow, as an Ondo man. And for a meal that comes handy, rice, and I am fine. What turns you on in people?
Being peaceful. That was what attracted me to my wife; she was so different and what I wanted. Even during the BBN show I wondered how someone could be this true. After the show, she proved to be real and true. What turns you off in people?
I hate people who have pride, who are stubborn and are headstrong. What life lessons have you garnered so far?
If I knew what I know now, I would probably be better because I understand now what it takes to be responsible and put family first all the time. Love conquers all and that’s why we have the saying ‘Kill your enemies with kindness’ because this makes them look stupid at the end of the day. Knowing and putting God first always is the ultimate, and of course, family second and then get money.