Mallam Salihu Isa Nataro, a governorship aspirant in Kebbi State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), says the north under the auspices of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has begun sensitising its leaders on the imperatives of a Southern Presidency. Nataro, who is also a member of Osinbajo for President 2023, told LEO SOBECHI that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as candidate and winner will allow for seamless transition. • Our public service needs reforms to cut down duplications, oversize With apprehension trailing the build-up to the 2023 general election, what do you think is the best way to move the country forward in unity? 
There is need to change the narrative. This constant fear mongering that this country will collapse, disintegrate or depend on foreign assistance to survive is unacceptable.
  
My take is that Nigerians should support a person that will raise the bar on socio-economic development irrespective of political party affiliation, religious or tribal differences. This way we can shame these awful predictions from foreign powers.
  
Nigerians know what is good, fair and equitable. They know those who can turn the country around for good of everyone. We need to leave power in the hands of the people through credible, transparent and free elections. Talking about equity, you are one of the prominent northerners propelling Vice President Osinbajo to become President in 2023, what about the likes of Tinubu, Rochas Okorocha, Rotimi Amaechi, David Umahi, Orji Kalu and others?
This country is beyond a single individual and therefore you need to think of the new World Economic Order. A lot of things are happening in the world and we must look for someone with fresh ideas from any region or party to help move the country forward.
 
For us, Vice President Osinbajo is bubbling with great ideas. And he has shown great loyalty to a great leader, President Muhammadu Buhari. Osinbajo helped in smoothening the governance after PDP. He is tested and proven reliable. It is true that the likes of Okorocha and Tinubu mean good for this country, just as people like Peter Obi or Kalu, a friend to the North and Amaechi are also capable of offering good leadership.
 
However, we believe that Osinbajo is best suited to complete and consolidate certain development strategies already embarked upon by the Buhari administration. That is it. This country needs to develop itself in such a way to avoid some foreign powers having their way to fulfill their prediction of possible disintegration. That is why we have started mobilising our fellow northerners on the need for good and equitable leadership.
 
I can tell you that the leadership of Arewa Consultative Forum, such as Audu Ogbe and brilliant Dr. Hakeem Baba Ahmed, have begun to enlighten the northerners on the advantage of supporting anybody from the South.
  
The consciousness is growing already that this country needs a southerner after President Buhari, and to respect party zoning idea. Be it Southwest or Southeast, it does not matter as long as the person emerges from South and is understandable, honest in dealing with affairs of the nation. 
  
To make the matter very simple, those of us that are supporting Vice President Osinbajo to succeed Buhari are already lining up a good vice presidential candidate to support him.
  
We have to wait for other APC aspirants to come out so that we could assess them side by side to see how far they measure against Osinbajo’s current contributions to our country.  You said something about neglect of public sector in Kebbi, is that not an indirect attack on the current administration?
I hope you will not forget that I am an advocate of public sector reforms. Both the state and federal governments are very much aware of duplications of functions, especially the oversized civil service. There are in fact, too many ministries, para-statals and agencies with bloated expenditure.
   
You must strengthen the system to make the public sector more effective and efficient. For me, the Federal Government should reconsider its decision to place further taxes on certain commodities and rather undertake drastic reduction of public expenditure.  Barely sixteen months to the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s final term, how would you assess his administration? 
I happened to have worked with Buhari and other political associates in Kaduna State for a long period of time and that proved to me and everyone who wishes to hear, that Buhari is a great leader. 