…I convey kidnappers to and fro Onigari, Bodija with N10,000, suspect confesses
The Oyo State Police Command, yesterday,   paraded suspected kidnappers terrorising  Onigari community and kidnapping people along Ibadan-Lagos Expressway. The suspects were paraded by the state Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko at the Command’s Headquarters Eleyele, Ibadan. According to Onadeko who briefed journalists, the suspected kidnappers are Aliu Umaru, Isiaka Ibrahim and  Tambaya Usman.
They were among the  33 suspects paraded for offences ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery, impersonation and burglary.
Addressing journalists,   Onadeko maintained that the briefing became imperative to inform the world about some of the outstanding accomplishments of  Tactical, Operational and Investigative departments of the Force. She said:  “Owing to the rising cases of kidnapping along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and the ugly incident of the case of kidnapping/ murder that happened at Onigari area of Lagos expressway on the January 7, 2022, the Oyo State Police Command immediately swung into action through the swift deployment of intelligence and tactical assets. “These have led to the arrest of one Bashiru Abubakar ‘m’ alias Maku-Maku a syndicate member of the kidnapping gang terrorising Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, on January 14, 2021 at about 1530hrs. “
“During interrogation, the arrested suspects mentioned one Babuga Umaru, Bellel  Ibrahim Buyo, Habu Kosoko alias Ontop, Danliti, surnames yet unknown now at large, that have carried out the kidnapping operations that caused the death of one Oluwatosin Anwajoye aged 45 at Onigari area of Lagos/Ibadan Expressway on the January 7, 2022.” Danliti confessed that, he used his motorcycle to convey one Bellel ‘m’ and one Ibrahim ‘m’ on the January 6, 2022 at about 2000hrs and they alighted in the bush at Onigari area of Ibadan-Lagos Expressway before striking on January 7, 2022. “
“He also confessed that he was the person that supplies the syndicate foods and hard drugs while they are in the forest. “Preliminary investigation of all the suspects arrested so far in the case revealed that they all have knowledge of the kidnapping operations that took place on January 7, 2022 and the forensic analysis of their phone numbers linked them  with  the crime. There is nexus between them and the suspects at large.”
She however said that all the suspects are undergoing further interrogation for possible arrest of the fleeing suspects and recovery of their weapons. Another set of suspects who used their motorcycles to convey kidnappers were also paraded.
One of the suspects, Bashiru Abubakar confessed to have aided the successful kidnap of some victims by supplying them with information and logistics. “I received N10,000 for taking Babuga Umaru Belle, Ibrahim  Buyo, Habu Kosoko, ‘Ontop’ Danliti to and fro Onigari to Bodija. I used to buy food for them. Though they told me that they used to mount roadblocks at the highway, and  I know what the roadblock meant. I was given N10,000 and they also promised me a new motorcycle. But I was arrested before they fulfilled their promise, Abubakar confessed. Similarly, CP. Onadeko paraded another suspected kidnappers gang who were operating along Ibadan-Lagos Expressway. Proactive measures adopted by the State Command to flush out and abate kidnapping in the state and painstaking effort led to the arrest of one Aliyu Umaru ‘m’ and one Isiaka Ibrahim ‘m’ . Their interrogation led to the arrest of one Tambaya Usman Shehu ‘m’ in his hideout at Akimbola area of Bodija Ibadan on January 27, 2021 at about 0230hrs who also belong to another syndicate of the kidnapping gang terrorising Ibadan-Lagos Expressway. “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to being kidnappers and explained the roles they played in two different kidnapping and armed robbery operations along Ibadan-Lagos Highway. One Tambaya Usman Shehu ‘m’ confessed that in one of the kidnapping; he collected a ransom of N3.5 million.  He also mentioned his syndicate members who are presently on the run, while the duo of Isiaka Ibrahim ‘m’ and Aliyu Umaru ‘m’ were arrested with Two Bajaj Boxer motorcycles with reg. number: SHK 300 QL and LND 715 QM respectively bought purposely for kidnapping and have been used by the syndicate for their kidnapping activities. “They both confessed to the crime and admitted they have carried out kidnapping on Ibadan-Lagos expressway with the first suspect, one Tambaya Usman Shehu ‘m’. The victims, one Olaleyele Folahan ‘m’ and one Sakinat Tiamiyu ‘m’ have identified Tambaya Usman Shehu ‘m’ to be part of those that kidnapped them. One Paul Adedoyin was arrested and paraded for impersonation, while two pairs of military camouflage uniforms, one military Cardigan, one empty pistol jacket, two military face caps, one military rain coat, one lanyard, one military camouflage knickers.