The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) said it had seized at least 649,300 capsules of Tramadol, totalling 225 mg and 809,850 Euros in Lagos. This is contained in a statement by the Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi, issued on Sunday, in Abuja. Babafemi said that the seized cash and drugs were among consignments from Pakistan, Austria and Italy intercepted at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos. He said that various quantities of Heroin and other illicit drugs were also blocked from being exported to the U.S, the UK and Canada by the operatives of the agency. He also said that the tramadol capsules weighing 460.95 kgs were exported from Pakistan via Addis Ababa, through Ethiopian Airline on Wednesday, Feb. 16. He added that they were seized at the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) cargo warehouse at the airport and a suspect, Nwadu Christian, was arrested in connection with the seizure. “On the same day, a female passenger, Ms. Ayeki Happy, who arrived at the airport from Italy on a Turkish Airline flight was arrested with 69,850 Euros cash concealed in her luggage. “This was four days after another lady, Precious Idahagbon, was arrested with 740,000 Euros cash hidden in her luggage and undeclared upon her arrival at the airport, from Vienna, Austria, via Istanbul, Turkey. “Both cash seizures are currently under investigation to establish if they are proceeds of a drug business, ” he said. Babafemi said that operatives seized a consignment of 131 parcels of cannabis concealed in packages of black soap (Dudu-Osun) going to the UK. This, he said, was during the outward clearance of Nigeria Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO) export shed of the airport’s cargo. “This is as another consignment presented for export to Dubai, UAE, at SAHCO shed was also recovered and 30 parcels of cannabis hidden in cartons of cornflakes were discovered in it. “Not less than 6.5 kgs of Heroin, Khat and Oxycodone packaged for export to the U.S and Canada were seized at a major courier company in Lagos, by the operatives of the Directorate of Operation and General Investigations, (DOGI). The drugs were concealed in shoes, and carton walls, ” he said. Babafemi said that a 34-year-old Nasiru Abdulrahman, was similarly arrested with 476 kgs of cannabis at Kwanar Dan Gora, in Kiru local government area of Kano, on Friday. He said that 4,000 tablets of Tramadol 225 mgs were also seized from one, Abdulmuminu Abubakar, 24, who was arrested at Gidan Madara, Mubi North LGA in Adamawa. The NDLEA spokesman said that the suspect was arrested on Tuesday, while travelling on a motorcycle to deliver the drugs in Bukula, Cameroon Republic. “He claimed that another suspect, Fahad Mohammed, 19, gave him the consignment. “Fahad was later arrested in a follow up operation at his home in Kasuwan Borkono Area of Mubi town. “In Abuja, two consignments were intercepted from transport vehicles in Abaji area of the FCT. While the first contained 12 kgs of cannabis, the second had 356 kgs of the same substance. “A follow up operation in Kaduna led to the arrest of the owner of the 356 kgs cannabis, one Ayomide Adewale, 29, ” he said. Babafemi quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, retired Brig.- Gen. Buba Marwa as commending the officers and men of the MMIA, DOGI, Kano, Adamawa and FCT commands for the arrests and seizures. Marwa charged them and their colleagues across the country to intensify the offensive action against all drug cartels in every part of Nigeria. 