Fourth Republic Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, knows too well that year 2023 holds a final verdict for his 30-year-long aspiration to lead Nigeria.
   
During President Ibrahim Babangida’s convoluted transition to civil rule, the former Customs officer from Jada, Adamawa State contested alongside Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Abiola for the Social Democratic Party’s (SDP) Presidential ticket in 1992.  History Of Missed Opportunities
TALKING about Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s political past, his tendency to crisscross political parties and renege on agreements seem to be haunting his latest aspiration.
  
In an interview with The Guardian when the former Vice President left APC and returned to PDP, Katsina State governor, Aminu Bello Masari, described Atiku as a nomadic politician, stressing that since “a rolling stone gathers no moss, it would be hard for voters to stand by him to win the Presidency.”
  
Afegbua’s principled stance against the sustained ambition seems to validate Masari’s postulation.  Yet, although many political actors like Masari associate Atiku’s political calculations with desperation for power, in 2003, perhaps, in a bid to rebuff the desperation elements, the then Vice President back-pedalled from a proposition to pair him up with second Republic Vice President, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, at the expense of President Olusegun Obasanjo, who was expected to serve just a single term of four years.
  
Diepreye Solomon Peter Alamieseigha, the then Governor of Bayelsa State, led by Governor James Ibori, Orji Uzor Kalu of Abia State and 13 other PDP governors had approached Atiku with the plan to have him share the 2003 Presidential ticket with Ekwueme.  Dokpesi’s Sales Pitch
HIGH Chief Raymond Dokpesi has been touring the Southeast geopolitical zone with his committee to sell Atiku’s aspiration to fly the PDP flag once again during the 2023 Presidential poll.
  
Dokpesi and his contact team believes that the north had yet to complete its term on the Presidency, given that Presidential Goodluck Jonathan served out not only the extra year of the President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua’s four years, but also went ahead to contest for another term.
  
Further, the Media mogul told stakeholders that he would ensure that Atiku serves for only one term of four years and thereafter support the Southeast to take over in 2027.
 
In making his sales pitch, however, Dokpesi was said to have willfully glossed over the fact that Atiku joined other politicians to move away from PDP in 2014 to push through the power rotation arrangement between North and South.
  
It was perhaps based on that twisted logic that Afegbua described Atiku’s 2023 ambition as not only immoral, but also attempt at selling an expired drug that was dead on arrival.
  
Could it be that the one-term mandate put forward by G16 PDP governors in 2003 is coming to haunt the former Vice President? Dokpesi would rather that Southeast waits for another five years to access the Presidency.
    
He argued that that would afford the North the opportunity to complete former President Umaru Musa Y’Ardua’s tenure, who died in office and was succeeded by former President Goodluck Jonathan.  Also, the President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo world wide, Ambassador George Obiozor, said Igbo are prepared for the 2023 Presidency and prepared to listen contrary voices. 