Over the past two years since the COVID-19 pandemic started, Africa’s economy has contracted by 2.1 per cent and regional growth is expected to be muted in 2022 compared to 2021. Economic recovery and growth are top of mind for countries and many are now realising that accelerated digital transformation is at the heart of achieving this.  
  
Forward-thinking leaders, policymakers and organisations are turning to Artificial Intelligence (AI), which is helping organisations experience the equivalent of 10 years of growth in less than one year in areas such as e-commerce. By leveraging emerging technologies like AI, countries can surely drive greater efficiencies, create jobs, enhance competitiveness and productivity.  
   
A recent IBM report revealed that nearly half of global businesses (43 per cent) accelerated their rollout of AI over the last year as organisations looked to virtual assistants to automate workflows. Additionally, 80 per cent of companies stated they had plans to roll out some form of automation software over the next 12 months.  Specifically, she said consumers, regulators and shareholders are putting greater pressure on companies to make tangible sustainability gains. According to her, climate change and extreme weather events also put a strain on supply chains and business operations. She said these pressures will continue to grow in 2022, AI will play a key role in helping businesses achieve sustainability benchmarks through greater measurement, data collection, and carbon accounting, as well as improved predictiveness and greater supply chain resiliency.   
   
Calvalho observed that farmers across Africa have always wrangled with weather – drought, flooding or something in between. She said AI and IoT apps such as FarmWeather will help small-holder farmers maximise crop output despite unpredictable weather conditions by providing risk forecasts and crop advice for a 3-4km radius of a farm and will also allow information sharing – including via SMS for farmers without access to the Internet or a smartphone.  “As companies and governments continue to invest in cybersecurity, AI will play an even more crucial role in helping identify and respond to threats more efficiently, as they move towards a “zero trust” approach to further reduce risks,” she stressed. 