Investment in women sports, especially football, is one of the avenues Nigerians can help develop the girl/child. This is the submission of stakeholders at the just concluded Afusat Olabimpe Abiodun Women Gold Cup held in Ikorodu, Lagos. The tournament, which began on January 23, drew women teams from across Lagos State. In the final held on February 13 at Strong Towers School Sports Field, Ikorodu, Prince Kazeem Eletu Queens of Ikorodu defeated Papa Soccer Academy of Epe through a penalty shoot-out after regular and extra time had ended 1-1. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Director-General, Lagos State Sports Commission, Oluwatoyin Bolowotan, said the tournament was aimed at promoting the development of the girl-child. He was optimistic that the competition would promote the growth of women football, saying it would encourage more girls to venture into sports. “I think it is high time we started doing things like this to encourage our girl/child to participate in sporting events like this. Other activities that can engage them and give them physical, mental and health boost, should also be introduced into our society. “I commend the sponsor of the competition because we need more of such events in our society to have a better society in which all of us will be proud of,” he said. Vice-Chairman of Ikorodu Division of the Lagos State Football Association, Adeoye Abiodun, who sponsored the competition, said it had unearthed talented women footballers, adding that it would soon be upgraded to ensure that more skilful players are discovered. “This is the first Afusat Abiodun competition in memory of our late mother, who died 39 years ago and we will be doing this yearly. The competition is an opportunity for the girls to showcase their talents. “We hope to also have some of the girls play for the national team, beginning from the U-17 team. Hopefully, some of them can also play in Europe as we see some Asisat Oshoalas among them,” he said. At the closing ceremony, champions, Prince Kazeem Eletu of Ikorodu got N150, OOO, runner up, Papa Soccer of Epe took N100, 000, while third and fourth-placed Makbet Queens and Young Achievers Queens won N75, 000 and N50, 000 respectively. The most valuable player of the competition, Kemi Osundina, received N20, 000 and a university scholarship from the foundation.