The Federal Government has sympathised with Nigerians over unforeseen hardship occasioned by scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and called for patience in finding lasting solutions to the problem. Chief Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, made the appeal on Sunday in a statement by his Senior Adviser (Media & Communications), Horatius Egua. “In the last weeks, Nigerians have grappled with fuel scarcity not because of the absence of supply of products but due to inspection failure, which allowed adulterated products into the country. “This is regrettable, and the Federal Government sympathises with the citizenry over the unforeseen hardship, occasioned by the inevitable scarcity. “Let me once again appeal to Nigerians to be patient with government in finding lasting solutions to the crisis,” Sylva said. He appreciated the NNPC for showing so much concern to the plight of Nigerians by coming forward with an apology. “This is unprecedented and showed that we on the government side are not afraid to take responsibility,” he added. The minister also said the Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority had been out on the streets, fuel stations to ensure that the situation normalise quickly. According to him, we are beginning to see the fruits of their efforts. “It is not a time to trade blames as is customary in Nigeria. It is, therefore, not a time to query anyone but a time to come together to salvage the plight of the average Nigerian. “After the storm settles, there will be time enough to investigate and get to the bottom, so that this does not repeat itself. “President Muhammadu Buhari’s charge to all parties and agencies concerned is to work together to ensure that normalcy returns quickly. “The Nigerian people deserve the best and the government is determined to set the country on the right path of petroleum products availability and sustainability,” Sylva said. This, he said, was demonstrated in the award of the contracts for the rehabilitation of all our refineries and the acquisition of stake in the Dangote Refinery. 