 Oxlade In Street Look Afro-fusion singer Oxlade has taken the number one spot on Twitter trend tables as five sex tapes of the singer have been leaked.   In the late hours of Wednesday, explicit videos of the Ojuju singer made rounds on social media. The videos leaked via Snapchat showed the singer engaged in intercourse with unidentified female(s). Reports allege that Oxlade had sent the video as a streak on social platform Snapchat from where it was recorded and posted online. Mixed reactions have trailed the videos, with some users praising the singer for his sexual prowess while others have condemned him, demanding that he be given the same treatment Tiwa Savage received when she was blackmailed with her videos. Recall that late last year, an explicit video of the Koroba singer was leaked, and the singer received backlash. The leak of Oxlade’s video comes barely a week after R18 videos of comedian Bae U also found their way online. The recent increase in the number of celebrity leaked sex tapes brings to mind several questions, including: A Failed Attempt At Relevancy? Taking a look at the increased number of allegedly ‘leaked’ explicit content of many Nigerian celebrities, one cannot help but wonder if these leaks are a planned attempt at relevancy. Between the last half of 2021 and now, more than four celebrities have had made the news for this same reason, bringing to mind the thought that they might be taking Phineas T. Barnum’s saying, “There’s no such thing as bad publicity”, literally. However, being a conservative society, Nigerians frown at the public display of intimacy and sexuality. Everything from wearing revealing clothes to public displays of affection and the release of explicit intercourse videos are generally frowned at. As public figures, celebrities are held in high regard viewed as role models by many. As such, it is no surprise to see many comments expressing disappointment and disgust directed towards celebrities whose explicit content have found their way online. In some cases, these releases have also impacted victims’ careers, costing more than a few days or weeks of fame. So, if this is the new way to ‘blow’, it might be time to have a rethink.