The Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited has denied exporting Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) illegally. NLNG responded to a report that its top officials were part of the oil and gas industry actors who operate as international cartels and illegally ship oil worth over $1 billion to US and South American countries. NLNG’s General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Andy Odeh, in a statement yesterday, described the report as ‘false and malicious’ and is calculated to ‘cast the company and its leadership in a bad light’. According to the statement, NLNG said it was not allowed to react to the allegations before the report was published. “Deliveries of LNG from its Bonny Terminal complies with all regulatory requirements for the export of its products and are made under various term and spot sales contracts to destinations not limited to Europe, the Far East, Greater Middle East, North America and South America, thus ensuring NLNG’s position as a significant competitive global LNG supplier, promoting the Nigerian Brand,” the statement reads. “NLNG is a responsible corporate citizen operating its business according to strong business principles and ethics in accordance with requirements of relevant Nigerian and global laws and regulations.” According to the company, it has never engaged in unauthorised exportation of LNG since the company became operational in 1999. NLNG stressed that it had proper documentation for all export activities that had been carried out by the company. “From the commencement of its operations in October 1999, NLNG has never, and does not, engage in “illegal” or “backdoor” exportation of LNG or any of its products, nor is NLNG involved in any international cartel, as alleged,” it added. NLNG further said that it is simply not true that “… the illegal exportation is still ongoing with the backing of some players in NLNG. “The LNG trade undertaken by the Company is bound by strict protocols and controls, hence not amenable to the kind of illegitimate schemes alleged in the report,” NLNG said. “Contrary to the allegation of export of LNG without paperwork, records exist for every single cargo of product loaded by the Company since it commenced operation, together with fully accurate accounts of destinations, quantities loaded and unloaded and related earnings on each cargo, and these are demonstrable.” “For each of the past financial years, including the periods alluded to in the report, the Shareholders of NLNG, which includes NNPC and three IOCs, never reported that any cargo or product of the Company was lost or unaccounted for. Indeed, the possibility of such happening is beyond comprehension. “For the avoidance of doubt, NLNG restates that the report paints a very incorrect picture of the Company’s business and its LNG trade and is at complete variance with the Company’s Vision as a globally competitive LNG Company helping to build a better Nigeria”, it added. 