• Civil service, public funds at mercy of gov’s son, says opposition
• You’ve misfired over Executive Order, govt replies Again, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ondo State Chapter, has accused Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of using the state machinery and resources to empower his son, Babajide Akeredolu, who was appointed as the Director-General of Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPIMU). The PDP also accused the First Lady, Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, of joint embezzlement of government funds. The state’s Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Kennedy Peretei, in a statement made available to journalists yesterday, the 14th series on “Akeredolu’s misrule in Ondo State,” alleged that the governor signed an Executive Order to make Babajide approving authority to all MDAs. Peretei expressed dismay over the level of misrule in the state as the governor will celebrate his fifth year anniversary on Thursday, lamenting that “there is no sign that things can ever get better under the incumbent administration.” According to him, the governor has just signed an Executive Order to provide legal cover for the illegal appointment of his son, Babajide, as Director-General of PPIMU. The PDP scribe said the Executive Order was an administrative decoy to cover for the incompetence and lack of experience of the son to discharge such responsibility demanded by his office. He said: “On a good day when a governor signs an Executive Order for the good of the people, it is done with funfair, but this particular one was secretly signed because of its implications to the government. “It is an order that has finally reduced state commissioners, some of them accomplished in their various fields, to submit projects from their ministries for approval to the governor’s son, who will, in turn, depend on ‘crop of professionals’ to give such approvals before the governor appends his signature with the red pen.”
HOWEVER, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, who accused the opposition party of inciting the public, dispelled all the accusations made by the opposition party, saying: “On Executive Order, PDP misfired. “Though it came not as a surprise, the opposition PDP’s latest misadventure in respect of an Executive Order signed by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu manifested two things: it is either gross lack of knowledge about public governance or another failed but usually warped twist to misinform the populace. “Both inferences are uncanny even as they represent all that connote ignorance. This response, therefore, requires educating the opposition on the essence of institutional frameworks for good governance.”