The crisis brewing in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State may not end soon, as the committee constituted to paper the cracks in the party has postponed sitting indefinitely. Also, Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle; former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and other members of the National/State Joint Supervisory Committee shunned the reconciliation sitting, The Guardian reliably gathered. This was despite the announcement of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, who chairs the committee, for the inaugural sitting of the committee scheduled for last Friday. In a statement signed by Kano State Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, the governor assured members of the national secretariat of the APC and party stakeholders in the state of the committee’s readiness to give a voice to all concerned, with a view to bringing about unity and progress in the party. Although, the governor, in the statement, emphatically indicated that a venue had been secured for the February 11 meeting in the state capital, it was, however, observed that the meeting did not only hold, the ‘big shots’ who were supposed to join the meeting deserted Kano. The Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee recently released a template for the harmonisation of party structure in Kano to reconstruct the internal division in the state’s APC.
In the guidelines of the template, two strong bodies were created, National/State Joint Supervisory Committee and the Local Council Caucus – a new strategy meant to form mutual front in the party structure. A source within the Abdullahi Abbas leadership faction told The Guardian that though there were issues that would have been resolved before the meeting, he, however, accused the Senator Ibrahim Shekarau faction of frustrating the reconciliation meeting with the new list of demands. The G-7 led by the senator had demanded 55 per cent of the party leadership, including the plum seat of the state chairman, removal of Ganduje as chairman of the supervisory committee and withdrawal of the appeal court case, among other demands, before accepting to take part in the reconciliation meeting. Dr. Sule Yau Sule, a close associate of Shekarau, confirmed the new demand placed before the national headquarters of the party. He, however, insisted that the government announcement of the supervisory committee sitting was not well intended because the government was quite aware the meeting would not hold. 