A group of eminent persons, under the aegis of The 2022 Committee, has called on Nigerians to come together to rescue the nation from all political, economic and security threats, and promote its unity. The group, which met in Lagos over the weekend to map a new consensus for national rebirth, was attended by business tycoons, political leaders and governors from different parties. They urged Nigerians not to link the Committee with the political aspiration of any candidate. The group disclosed: “All the 100 leading lights of the 2022 Committee have the capacity for national leadership. Indeed, among the very active participants in the work of the Committee are over seven persons, from three or more political parties, who have already publicly declared their aspiration to lead the country but are desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals.” A statement signed on behalf of The 2022 Committee by Kashim Ibrahim Imam and Nduka Obaigbena, noted that there must be a secure, peaceful and united nation before Nigerians should be preoccupied with issues of candidates for political offices. Part of the statement reads: “100 leading business, political, civil society and thought leaders met in Lagos over the last weekend from February 4 to 6, 2022 under the aegis of The 2022 Committee, in a non-partisan retreat, to map a new consensus for national rebirth. The attendance list included 14 current governors and 13 former governors, as well as three former Senate Presidents. “Working in three Sub-Committees of National Security, The Economy and Nigeria in Transition, the participants recognised that there is an urgent need to seek common ground and irreducible minimum actions to stabilise the polity at this critical time of transition. “The meetings will continue, as we work with federal and state governments, current and future political leaders of all political persuasions, as well as other eminent patriotic citizens, for the greater good of the Nigerian people.” “While The 2022 Committee is interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge in Nigeria at all levels, we consider attempts to link the Committee with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections as an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction – candidates are only chosen by political parties and we are not a political party. “All the 100 leading lights of the 2022 Committee have the capacity for national leadership; indeed, among the very active participants in the work of the Committee are over seven persons, from three or more political parties, who have already publicly declared their aspiration to lead the country but are desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals. We must have a secure, peaceful and united nation before we can have candidates for political offices. “The Committee believes that what Nigeria needs today is for all patriots to come together to rescue our nation from all political, economic and security threats, and promote the unity of Nigeria. We call on all patriotic volunteers, who are willing and able, to join this collective effort to stabilise the system, so we can all build a new Nigeria we can all be proud of.”