*MOMAN commends NNPC for steady supply of petroleum products The Chief Executive of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMPRA), Farouk Ahmed, has called for an upgrade of oil facilities in the country to meet up safety requirements. Ahmed made the call during his visit to some oil facilities in Apapa, Lagos alongside his top management distribution team, saying, “We came to visit the Lagos Oil Marketers Association as well as the NNPC facility, depots and other facilities. This is part of our oversight function to see reality on the ground because there have been complaints about some facilities that need to be upgraded for efficient delivery of products. “To be honest, there is a lot of work to be done to upgrade these facilities. We went round to see some of the marketers’ facilities and some of them have not been upgraded in the last 25 years, while some of them are also upgrading and expanding. A lot of expansion projects in terms of storage facilities, as well as truck out facilities, are also being upgraded.” He added: “It is also good to see a lot of transformations and upgrades, but there is a lot of work to be done in the jetties in order to meet up with safety requirements. “We agreed during our meeting with stakeholders in the country in 2021 that we will be having quarterly meetings to review areas of concern and areas that require improvement. So, this is what we will be doing on a quarterly basis or in between if there is a need to visit for some oversight functions because there was a fire incident in one of Oando’s tanks in 2018, and with that, we saw it as a call and need to carry out more oversight. Also speaking, Executive Secretary, Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Clement Isong said: “This visit follows our recent meeting. This is the sort of regulator we have been looking for, the one that supports us and works with us. Speaking on the level of supplier of petroleum products in the country, he said: “We still have a supplier as of today, which is the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and they have been doing well over the last three years, supply has been steady. There are hiccups but when we flag, they respond, we are happy with them. And the visit of the contingent shows the level of attention they pay to supply, and we are happy. Commenting on the visit, COO, OVH Energy, Mumuni Dagaza, who received the contingent in his office in Apapa, said: “As a major industry player, this is what we have been looking forward to. This is what the industry needs on a regular basis, this visit validates the work we are doing and also the difficulties we have. Sometimes we explain our difficulties to regulators, and it’s good they come to see us. We hope this will be a regular visit. Meanwhile, Ardova Plc has expanded its operation after the November 2021 acquisition of Nigeria’s downstream company with a total of 545 stations nationwide, Enyo. According to the Managing Director, Ardova, Olumide Adeosun, “This acquisition will be of utmost benefit to all our customers as the synergy of AP and Enyo’s shared principles of innovation, customer-centricity, and service excellence will be leveraged to build a one-stop-shop for all your energy needs. “We will reach more people in more ways and make a more meaningful impact on the downstream oil and gas sector. We are enhancing our processes, accelerating our speed to market, and extending our footprints to become faster and more competitive. We are launching new products and services to suit all your energy needs. “Ardova has an extensive network of over 450 retail outlets in Nigeria and significant storage facilities in Apapa, Lagos and Onne, Rivers State, we procure and distribute petrol (PMS), diesel (AGO), kerosene (DPK) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). Speaking with The Guardian at the site of Ardova multi-billion naira project, Project Manager, Ardova PLC, Ibrahim Bamgbopa said the company is expanding to key into the government initiative on LPG: “This is an initiative to get all the stakeholders on board in terms of getting everybody’s buy in.”