No breach of infrastructure, firm reassures Nigerians Subscriber Identity Modules (SIM) services, including swap, registration of new lines, among others, are expected to resume fully this week. This is the case as the about 10 days service outage, resulting from supposed maintenance of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) portal, has been resolved. Recall that over the last one week, subscribers, who submitted and expected to verify their National Identity Numbers (NIN) after enrolment had verification challenge via the NIMC portal. They were subsequently advised to explore the virtual NIN through the tokenisation system. Hopefully from today, subscribers can verify their NIN status via the National Identification Number (NIN) Verification Service (NVS) portal. NIMC announced, at the weekend, that its portal, which went down a few days ago, due to maintenance by one of the commission’s network service providers, has been fully restored. The commission said customers and service providers can now take full advantage of the two verification platforms – Tokenisation and NVS, which are both effective for verification and authentication of the NIN. NIMC Head of Corporate Communications, Kayode Adegoke, extended NIMC’s profound gratitude to the general public and partners for their support during the downtime and use of the tokenisation platform. He said the commission would continue to come up with innovative identity management solutions to enhance its capacity to deliver on its mandate. In the same vein, Galaxy Backbone (GBB), which is NIMC’s network service provider, also appealed to its customers. It stressed that the outage has been completely resolved. According to a statement signed by its Head, Corporate Communications, Chidi Okpala, the Managing Director and Chief Executive of Galaxy Backbone, Prof. Muhammad Bello Abubakar, and the entire management thanked all customers for standing by the agency and “believing in our ability and competence to get this resolved.” The statement reads: “We are proud of the doggedness and dedication of all the engineers and application experts who worked round the clock since this issue occurred and never gave up until this was fully resolved. “We also thank well-meaning Nigerians and our stakeholders who believed in our ability to get this resolved. We thank Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, whose guidance, intervention and support during this period has been unwavering.” According to the statement, the management of GBB would like to reiterate that the temporary outage experienced by “our customers had nothing to do with any form of security breach on our infrastructure as earlier stated on some platforms. “The security of data of our customers and stakeholders is extremely paramount to us and we maintain the highest level of international standards, equipment and policies in ensuring data is kept secure at all times.”