Sir: Any mention of the war in a country that lived firsthand the attritional horrors of the civil war of 1967-70 is bound to evoke strong feelings and open old wounds. Such is the power of words, the power of language to take people on flights of fancy and horror. Today, there is even reluctance to brand the raging conflicts occupying the attention of many parts of the country as war because the word carries in its unspoken weight many woes and wounds.
 
In 1999, Nigeria returned to the path of democracy, and for the first time in decades, there was genuine hope that the country could relinquish its troubled past scarred in many spots by scores of military coups and the consequent depredations of the public treasury by each military dictator who swept into power.  As the structures, which contribute to free and fair elections have been improved, another problem has sprung up, one which is perhaps uglier than all its predecessors put together: vote-buying. Simply put, vote-buying implies the exchange of votes for cash or any other item deemed valuable during elections. This has quickly become a huge problem as it is predictably more difficult to combat than the sheer plunder of ballot boxes. Now, the average Nigerian politician knows the role cash can play over choices in Nigerian elections. Thus, before elections, more time is spent pooling funds and powering the war chest with which to buy votes than on preparing detailed manifestoes, complete with proposals and action plans.
 
Among Nigerians, there is an overwhelming and overriding mentality that Nigerian politics is dirty, irredeemably dirty at that. This is because, for many stakeholders in Nigerian politics, it is a do-or-die affair, a cut-throat rat race where everything, including assassination, witch-hunt, blackmail, betrayal and mudslinging, is permitted.
 
So, when Election Day comes around, elections become war chiefly because, in the prevailing atmosphere of impunity in Nigeria, power is a ticket to practically anything. The 2023 general election in Nigeria is less than a year away and indications are that it is going to be as fierce a contest as the country has had in recent memory. Yet, all stakeholders must tread with caution. The biggest players must especially call their supporters to order and drum into them that Nigeria is not at war and will never again go to war for any reason. 