Izilien cautions Falcons on tactical discipline Super Falcons’ Captain, Asisat Oshoala, will be conspicuously missing in Abidjan, today, when Nigeria confronts Cote d’Ivoire in the last leg of their Morocco 2022 African Women Cup of Nations qualifier. Oshoala is nursing an injury that also kept her out of the first leg of the tie in Abuja at the weekend.
In her place, Super Falcons will rely on U.S.-based Ifeoma Onumonu, whose two goals in Abuja gave Nigeria a 2-0 win on Friday. Nigeria’s contingent to the return leg landed in the Ivoirian capital, Abidjan on Sunday evening, and trained at the Palais des Sports in the Treichville area of the city. The 23-woman Super Falcons squad includes Captain Onome Ebi, Onumomu, defender Ashleigh Plumptre, goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie, midfielders Rasheedat Ajibade, Toni Payne and Rita Chikwelu, and forwards Esther Okoronkwo and Gift Monday.
 
The Falcons had their first training session yesterday at the Stade Robert Champroux, ahead of the match, which kicks off at 4.00 p.m. Cote d’Ivoire time. The winner on aggregate will join hosts, Morocco and Uganda, who have already qualified for the 12-team finals holding from July 2 to 23, 2022. Meanwhile, former Falcons coach, Godwin Izilien, has cautioned the team against underestimating the Lady Elephants when they lock horns today. Izilien cautioned the Falcons to be aware of the current power show displayed by lowly rated teams in the just concluded Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroun, adding that Nigeria could be in for a shock in Abidjan if they are not careful. “African football is tough now. Teams regarded as minnows in men and women football in Africa are coming up strong. So, Super Falcons should be ready for a tough battle for the AWCON ticket,” he said. To get to the final qualifying around, Super Falcons defeated Black Queens of Ghana 2-1 on aggregate, while the Lady Elephants humiliated Niger ladies 20-0. Recall that the Lady Elephants on October 7, 2019 stopped Super Falcons from qualifying for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics by holding the ladies to a 1-1 draw at the Agege Stadium, in Lagos.