The Senate will on Tuesday, March 1, vote on the report of the Senate Committee on the review of the 1999 Constitution. Chairman of the Committee, Sen.Ovie Omo-Agege, (APC- Delta) gave the hint at plenary following an announcement made to invite members of the committee to a meeting scheduled to hold by 2 pm after plenary. Omo-Agege, who presided over the session, disclosed that the report of the Constitution Review Committee would be laid at plenary on  Wednesday, Feb. 23, and copies distributed to lawmakers. He, therefore, appealed to Senators to study the report ahead of its consideration and ensure they were present during plenary on March 1 to avail themselves of the opportunity to vote on it. “The Senate committee on the review of the 1999 Constitution will meet today, Tuesday,  Feb. 22, immediately after plenary sitting at room 221 of the Senate building. “Please, this meeting is very crucial. “Tomorrow, the Senate President will announce that the report of the Constitution Review Committee will be laid on Wednesday and, thereafter, we will take our vote on March 1, which will be Tuesday. “That will give us about four to five days to review the report, consult as we deem fit and be prepared to vote. “It is imperative that all of our colleagues be present on that day. “As you know, there are certain amendments that will require the two-thirds majority of all our colleagues – the entire Senate. ” Not two-third of those who are present, but two-thirds of the entire membership of the Senate and, indeed, there are some other provisions that would require four-fifths of the entire Senate. “So, please, it is my appeal without prejudice to the announcement the Senate President will make tomorrow, in my capacity as the Chairman of the Committee, to urge that all of our members be prepared to be present to cast their vote on March 1. “The report will be laid tomorrow and be made available to all members, which report you will take home and we expect you to bring back to the chamber on Tuesday to cast your vote.”