 Team Qhubeka (www.TeamQhubeka.com) is thrilled to release our 2022 kit which is a celebration of our organisation’s rich heritage and a true showcase of our unique purpose. The striking imagery moves us forward towards the next chapter in Team Qhubeka’s journey, with dreams and ambitions to rise again.  Produced by our partners Ekoi, this fresh, vibrant and deeply symbolic look, with warm colour tones, we hope will be a must-have jersey among our loyal fans, and newcomers to the sport of cycling. It features the iconic hand reaching upwards, which symbolises how we – our team, partners, Qhubeka beneficiaries – and you, are all connected to our purpose of bicycles changing lives. This montage is mirrored on an African horizon with the 'Hand Up' pointing to a future of great things to come. Details around the availability of the kit to the public will be made in due course, while we are also hard at work in creating a platform for supporters to join Team Qhubeka through an exciting offering that will connect and unite fans of the sport across the world. Doug Ryder [Team Principal]: It is always a beautiful time when you get to showcase and announce a new team kit. Particularly in our world where our kit is not only about showing off our fantastic partners, which are incredibly important and who invest in us, but it’s also about telling a story. The sun might have set on our World Tour team but the sun has risen for our Continental team that will proudly wear this kit. It’s modelled off an African horizon with the hand up a sign of a future of great things to come. The yellow and the red are the earth, the fields and the landscape – as you know our stadiums are the open roads of the world – and we ride through them and race on them to success. The blue sky is limitless; we reach for it and we celebrate it with our hands up – hopefully many times this season. It’s a beautiful jersey and we look forward to getting it into the hands of our riders to represent our team, our partners and our purpose successfully this year as we rise again into the future; and of course also to get it into as many hands of our partners and fans around the world. We look forward to engaging with everyone so that they can be a part of Team Qhubeka in 2022. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka. Note to Editors: Enquiries: 
Jean Smyth
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 470 1710 Social Media:
Website: TeamQhubeka.com
Twitter: bit.ly/3JqQVKO
Facebook: bit.ly/3JDimRt
Instagram: bit.ly/3HXaI3X
YouTube: bit.ly/3sNUy6P
LinkedIn: bit.ly/34H4dUU About Team Qhubeka: 
Team Qhubeka is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. 2022 saw us return to UCI Continental status as we took the next step in our journey that will see us rebuild, with the intention to return to highest level and once again represent Africa at the Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 35 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka: 
Qhubeka is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles.  People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release.