True to its oddly familiar nature, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) followed through its numerous threats by declaring a monthly warning strike last week. Much to the consternation of students, parents and many well-meaning Nigerians, this strike, ASUU stated, is only preparatory to a much comprehensive shut down of universities should the Federal Government refuse to heed to the union’s demands. By pursuing this all too familiar style of relating with the government, both ASUU and its principal have undermined tertiary education in a most insensitive and misguided manner that has made a mockery of the educational sector.
 
This is a clear demonstration that public tertiary education in this country is treated with utmost disregard, especially when it is evident that those who bear the brunt of these frequent crises are not privileged to seek alternatives. Yet, it is such irresponsibility, particularly on the part of the Federal Government, that has shoehorned the citadels of learning into theatres of despair.
  
ASUU’s grievance with the government is very well known to all stakeholders in the educational and labour sectors. It includes mainly the Federal Government’s failure to fully implement the Memorandum of Action (MoA) it signed with ASUU on December 23, 2020, even when the draft report of the Renegotiated 2009 FGN/ASUU agreement had been submitted for finalisation for more than nine months. Besides, ASUU also noted that the forceful payment of ASUU members’ salaries and emoluments with the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) and non-adoption of the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) have continued to short-change its members.  Yet, it must tread with caution as it canvasses structural cum infrastructural revitalisation of the university system and welfare reforms for its members. It should carry all stakeholders along through adequate, meaningful and consistent public enlightenment about its activities. Or else it will become the enemy of the Nigerian people, an object of ridicule and be despised by the same people whose cause they are pursuing.