As the prime art and culture advocacy group Committee for Relevant Art (CORA) gets set to flag off its 2022 Programming season on March 1, it has dedicated the year to celebrating the exemplary life and illustrious career of the grand patriarch of Nigeria’s visual arts, Dr Bruce Onobrakpeya, as he enters the nonagenarian age in August. A multi-pronged artist, teacher and mentor to generations of artists, Onobrakpeya will be 90 on August 30, and CORA says it is rolling out the drum to celebrate the accomplishments of the painter, sculptor, plastocastist and artist-philosopher, whose 60-year ‘Retrospective; exhibition is currently holding at the San Diego State University, United States of America. A statement from the Programme directorate of the CORA says: “Just as we dedicated the 2021 Programming season to celebrating the life and career of the theatre matriarch, Taiwo Ajai-Lycett, we are dedicating this year fully to honouring Onobrakpeya. “We shall in due course be releasing the details of the programming content of the celebration, however, our prime project, the 2022 edition of the yearly Lagos Book & Art Festival (LABAF) holding November 14 to 20, will be fully dedicated to honouring Onobrakpeya. “Before then we would have a series of conversations, reflections, Arthouse gatherings as well as mentoring sessions in his honour.” On other key items in the programming season, the CORA directorate also revealed that it should equally be involved with honouring some other eminent artists who are coming into old age in the course of the year. “We shall celebrate: The veteran journalist and photo-artist, Tam Fiofori @80 in June, the multi-skilled performer – actor, musician, storyteller, visual artist, Jimi Solanke @80 in July and the veteran actor, Olu Jacobs @ 80 also in July.” The statement said, “”We shall also be honouring other eminent artists who come into their 70s and 60s in the course of the year. “The CORA is conscious that its Honours programme, remains a pedestal of honour for those who should, and could be formally described as ICONS of the Culture Sector. “Also as advised by the Board of the CORA, we shall hold Arthouse Forums for even younger masters of the creative fields who come into the 50s and 40s birthday fold in the year. “The CORA as a future-focused organisation, whose foundation is rooted in youth empowerment, has resolved to reawaken its commitment to the recognition and celebration of the Nigerian youths, who have consistently proved that they are well equipped mentally and otherwise in all fields of endeavour — from the Creative Art to Science and Technology — to take on the world in terms of accomplishments. To this end, the CORA Creative Youth Club, CYCC, is being energized to stage regular programmes to recognize the contribution of the youths to the process of Nation Building.” “The current Programming season runs from March 2022 to March 2023.” 