UNITED kingdom (UK), in partnership with Nigeria has committed to tackle shared threats and keep both British and Nigerian people safe. The countries committed to improving civilian policing standards, protect human rights and recognise the important role of women in achieving sustainable peace. Disclosing this at the Security and Defence Partnership dialogue in London, UK offered its support to Nigeria in tackling Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) and Boko Haram and response to conflict with extremist groups in the North East. Minister for Africa, Vicky Ford said: “Conflict and insecurity are leading to the loss of life and increasing displacement of millions of people across West Africa. It affects the freedom of civilians and blocks economic growth, further undermining peace and prosperity. Through these new agreements, the UK is deepening our partnership with Nigeria to tackle shared threats, bolster regional stabilisation efforts and support Nigeria’s peace-keeping capabilities. “This will help Nigeria to tackle violent extremist organisations and organised criminal groups, empowering them to respond to growing regional security challenges. It is only when people are safe and communities stable, that nations can truly thrive.” Nigerian National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno, said: “Nigeria and the United Kingdom share deep linkages and a common history dating back to over a century. Like many other countries faced with complex and evolving security threats, Nigeria realises the need to forge greater alliances and partnerships with friendly nations, to combat these threats. It is particularly imperative that we work together to combat the threats of modern day terrorism. “The discussions and agreements reached today present an opportunity for officials at the highest levels of both our governments to work together to address threats from terrorism, inter communal conflicts, serious organised crime, piracy, banditry, border security and trafficking in drugs and persons, amongst others. These agreements will deepen and enhance our security and defence collaboration in order to create a safe and secure environment for all our citizens to thrive.” According to the statement, policing advisors deployed from the UK to Nigeria will share experiences and help Nigerian forces respond timely and appropriately to criminal activity across the country. In addition, there will be UK support to Nigeria as they roll-out community policing in several states. This will help improve civilian security and allow the Nigerian army, which is currently performing many policing duties across the country, to focus its efforts on fighting terrorism.