Nigeria’s House of Representatives on Thursday offered to fund the evacuation of Nigerians in Ukraine. The Chairman of the House of Representatives committee of foreign affairs is scheduled to be in Ukraine on Friday. Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine on Thursday asked citizens in the East European country to remain calm and take responsibility for their personal security and safety. The notice comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a military operation in Ukraine with explosions heard soon after across the country and its foreign minister warning a “full-scale invasion” was underway. READ MORE: Ukraine under attack along Russia, Belarus borders: border guards The embassy urges Nigerian nationals resident in Ukraine to remain calm but be very vigilant and be responsible for their personal security and safety. “The Embassy wishes to add that should any of Nigerian nationals considers the situation as emotionally disturbing, such nationals may wish to temporary relocate to anywhere considered safe by private arrangements,” the Nigerian Embassy said. “They should, however, ensure that they do all the needful to validate all their resident documents for ease of return to the country when desired. READ MORE: Russia’s Putin launches ‘military operation’ in Ukraine “In addition, in case of students seeking such temporary relocation, they are enjoined to seek proper clearance and guarantee from their respective institutions, authorities/agents on the way forward in respect to their studies during this period and/or thereafter. “For those who still consider it appropriate to remain in the country, be assured that the embassy remains open for its consular duties and responsibilities at all times. It will always avail you of updates when necessary.” AFP reports that Ukraine is coming under Russian artillery fire and land invasion along its northern and southern borders, the border guard service said on Thursday, adding that Ukrainian forces were returning fire. READ MORE: Putin wants to ‘negate’ Ukraine as sovereign country: France The border guards said that Russian forces were supported by Belarus and that an attack had been launched from Crimea, the Russian-occupied peninsula region on Ukraine’s southern flank. “Attacks on border units, border detachments and checkpoints are carried out with the use of artillery, heavy equipment and small arms,” the border guards’ statement said. “The work of enemy sabotage and reconnaissance groups is also recorded.” 