An Ibadan-based legal luminary, Otunba Kunle Kalejaiye (SAN), yesterday, urged the National Assembly to expedite action on how to make the Federal Government less attractive, and so unbundle the country for healthier livelihood. Kalejaiye, while speaking with journalists in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, yesterday, on the desperate ways some politicians are gunning to be president in 2023, said that Presidency was too powerful and loaded with responsibilities which ought to be spread to other bodies, thereby leaving room for more effectiveness in governance. He said: “There is too much load on the Presidency. The Executive is too attractive, reason many politicians are desperately struggling to be there at all costs. We have to unbundle Nigeria. We must unbundle this country. The Federal Government is too powerful. And even in normal human endeavour, if you want to live well, you must slim down. Even, trees shed leaves to live. So, Nigeria must shed weight. If we unbundle, the problem of somebody is coming from the North, East or West will not make any meaning. In this country, we have over 200,000 kilometres of roads. The Federal Government has 17.5 per cent, state governments have 17.5 per cent and local councils have 65 per cent. So, why don’t you give the business of road construction to local councils? Give them more money to do these things. Why should the Federal Government be concerned about the road that passes through Iwo Road in Ibadan to Oje? We must shed weight if we really want this country to survive. “If troubles from this misplacement persist, everybody, including the elite, will become canon fodders. The leadership of this country must see reason to unbundle.” Restructuring being roundly touted is a different kettle of fish. We must just unbundle. We have only 68 items on the Exclusive Legislative List. Let them sit down and realise that in other federations, it is only currency, security and foreign policy that are given to the Federal Government. But here in Nigeria, everything goes to the Federal Government. “Even, the little that you have given the state, there is still the doctrine of “covering the field” applying to it. Once it is on the Concurrent List and it is given to the Federal Government, the state will not be able to do anything. That is the problem that we have.”