Decorates Akeredolu, Amotekun boss as NDLEA patrons
The Chairman of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig-Gen. Mohammed Marwa (rtd), has declared that steady campaign to reduce drug abuse will drastically stem the rising insecurity in the nation. Marwa said this yesterday in Akure, Ondo State, while decorating Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as the Grand Patron of the NDLEA. He explained that the award was in recognition of the governor’s determination, alongside the agency, to completely nip drug abuse and its illegal cultivation in the bud. The agency also honoured the Ondo Commander of Amotekun Corps, who is the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security Matters, Adetunji Adeleye, as Patron of the agency. Honouring the duo, Marwa, who was represented by NDLEA Commander on Narcotics, Zone J, Mr. Parah Bawa, commended them for championing the War Against Drug Abuse (WADA). His words: “Before the country can successfully tame insecurity, drug is a number one factor that should be properly addressed, as bandits carry out their dastardly act under the influence of drugs. This is one of the reasons we created 14 zones across the nation and made Ondo a zonal command headquarters of Ondo and Ekiti states. “As a worthy partner in the fight against drug abuse, we will continue to support the state and the zone. We hope to get the necessary support needed to the abuse of drugs. We believe it will also help us in doing our own best.” The NDLEA boss expressed happiness over the cordial relationship between the NDLEA and state government, adding that the agency was looking forward to further collaborate with Amotekun in tackling drug abuse. Adeleye, who responded on behalf of the governor, expressed the state’s readiness to check the activities of drug barons across the 18 local councils of the state. “Drug is a major catalyst for criminal activities in the state. Ninety-five per cent of criminals we arrest are based on drug-related issues. We are not leaving out any security agency in our bid to ensure that our state is secure.” “Like Mr. Governor rightly told you, he has been a fantastic father to all security agencies in the state by helping to ensure that they are strengthened to achieve success in their fight against crime,” he stated. On Marwa’s request for logistic support, the governor promised to look into it and get back to him in the shortest period of time. 