Amnesty International: Support those on the run for speaking truth to power with yellow ribbon The Lagos State government has announced diversion of traffic, as some designated roads will be closed tomorrow for a few hours for the seventh edition of Access Bank Lagos City Marathon. The marathon, which will be flagged off at Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, is expected to round up at Eko Atlantic City on Lagos Island. A statement from the Lagos State Sports Commission yesterday announced that motorists from Eko Bridge coming from Apongbon to Costain Roundabout will be connected to Ebute-Metta, Orile, Nigeria Breweries/Abebe Village, Eric Moore, Bode Thomas, Adeniran Ogunsanya for them to link their destinations as appropriate. From Alaka Estate, motorists shall be diverted​ to Iponri or Iponri Estate to link Bode Thomas, Adeniran Ogunsanya or Babs Animasahun to connect their destination. Motorists from Masha inwards the National Stadium to be diverted through Shitta Roundabout, Akerele Street for onward movement through Falolu or Adeniran Ogunsanya to connect their destinations. Motorists from Apapa/Orile Iganmu going towards Funsho Williams Avenue shall be diverted to Apapa Road or Nigerian Breweries/Abebe Village to link Eric Moore, Bode Thomas, Babs Animashaun or Adeniran Ogunsanya to connect their destination. The statement also said that vehicular movement on Ikorodu Road is allowed from Anthony inwards Fadeyi to Eko Bridge inwards Lagos, but no movement shall be allowed from Fadeyi inwards Anthony. “Motorists should also note that​ making use of Anthony interchange inwards Gbagada to connect Lagos/Toll Gate shall be bar
red. However, traffic coming from Gbagada can access Ikorodu Road through Anthony interchange or before it,” the statement said. From the Apapa-Oshodi expressway, motorists shall be diverted through BOC Gases/Armed Forces Resettlement Centre at Oshodi into the service lane to connect Agege Motor Road. Traffic shall also be diverted to Town Planning Way through the service lane after descending Oshodi Oke to connect destinations as appropriate since traffic shall be closed shortly before Anthony interchange. MEANWHILE, Amnesty International has urged thousands of runners that will throng the streets and those cheering to lend their support and run in solidarity with others who are denied their right to freedom of expression. In a statement yesterday, it said: “Show your support by wearing a yellow ribbon around your wrist. Human right is a marathon, not a sprint. Make every step count in the race. “Different people run for different reasons. For some, running is a healthy exercise; for some, running is a sport while for others it is just a hobby. “But for some, running is a matter of survival. They’ve left everything behind; their homes, friends and family and embraced a life on the run like fugitives; simply for speaking truth to power. Many have been jailed, kidnapped and even killed for exercising a fundamental human right; the right to freedom of speech and expression. This has gone on for far too long. “So we’re calling on you to join us at this year’s Lagos City Marathon, as we run for freedom. We believe that every Nigerian should be able to live in a society where they can speak the truth without fear of attacks. “All you have to do is wear a yellow ribbon around your wrist as we run in solidarity for the people whose truthful voices have been muffled by those in power. Join us at the Lagos City Marathon and run for those who have had their truths and freedoms suppressed. Come lend your legs, your breath and your voice in the race for freedom. Let’s run together!” 