It is true that the only time we fail is when we fall down and decide to stay down. Daniel Moses, an entrepreneur and property investment mogul, who began his journey to greater wealth after losing his oil transport business in Nigeria is one of those who didn’t stay down after suffering a fall. Moses’ inner strength won’t give room to self-pity over the huge financial loss he suffered and he resolved to return to the United Kingdom from where he had earlier come to Nigeria to start the business that almost ruined his life – but not his will. Moses started to build his life from nothing – zero level. The property specialist took up a casual job and just eight months into picking up the pieces of his life, he encountered an advertisement on social media that changed the story of his life forever. His journey to becoming a giant in the UK property market is a true sign of a fighter. To fine-tune the idea he had caught about the new business model, the public speaker and multiple-source-of-income-crusader attended networking events and enrolled in more training courses in London. Armed with requisite knowledge of the industry, the Edo-born property mogul registered his business, South East London Properties – now known as Property Wealth Estate – which has now gone on to become a group with seven companies within the structure. On the performance of the business, Moses maintained that the company has been “growing from year to year and from strength to strength,” despite the disruptive national lockdown restrictions in the UK, which paralysed many businesses. As a man of vision that he is, Moses, despite the COVID-19-induced lockdown, birthed Property Wealth Education which focuses on trainings and mentoring alongside his first student, Kevin Kludje, who is now a partner, to help other people get started in property investment. Moses has now established himself as a force in the property industry, not only in England, but in the entire UK. Also an established author, his 2021 book, ‘Rent-To-Rent Made Easy – How to get started in property with little or no money,’ is selling like hot cake and has attracted so many into the property business. Likewise, his podcast ‘The Wealth and Business Podcast’ on Spotify, has 26 episodes, with the purpose of inspiring people to build a property empire and leave behind a legacy. 