It is only God that can trace the direction of politics in Zamfara State. That could explain why Governor Bello Matawalle became the state governor in a miraculous circumstance. But, nearly three years on the saddle, the governor has decided to take his destiny in his hands.
 
However, on June 30, 2021 the governor decided to move against his avowals to join the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), which was dethroned to make him the state chief executive on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
    
Although some people said the governor made a political miscalculation when the podium collapsed during his defection, the recent Gusau Federal High Court ruling in the case brought by PDP seeking his sacking showed that Maradun-born politician was destined to complete his four-year mandate.
  
It would be recalled that some PDP stalwarts from the state filed a suit challenging Matawalle’s defection from PDP to APC. APC was also disqualified from the 2019 governorship poll on account of its defective primaries.  2023 concerns
MANY people in Zamfara State see the ongoing impeachment processes against Mohammed Aliu as a prelude to the expected contentious 2023 governorship poll, which could set up a clash between governor and his estranged deputy.
   
The sentiments within Zamfara APC is that removing Gusau would not only pave the way to strengthen the governorship seat, by reinforcing it with a loyal deputy, but also weakening the current deputy governor to the extent that he could not pose a stout challenge in next year’s gubernatorial poll.
  
Sources within the Zamfara State government house allege that the governor is afraid of a possible repeat of 2015, when he lost his third bid for the House of Representatives.
  
That determination could explain why 18 out of the 22-member state Assembly voted last Thursday to support the deputy governor’s impeachment, after the Deputy Speaker, Musa Bawa, submitted a statement in which the lawmakers were requested to commence impeachment proceedings against Gusau.
  
While Bawa moved a motion for the request to be considered, four members comprising three APC lawmakers and one PDP member were absent, even as the Speaker, Mu’azu Magarya, who urged his colleagues to accept his deputy’s request, was excluded from the voting.
  
Consequent upon the voting, the Zamfara State Chief Judge, Kulu Aliyu, was directed by the lawmakers to constitute an investigation panel to consider the allegations against the deputy governor. According to the request for impeachment, the lawmakers alleged that the deputy governor breached Sections 190 and 193 (1), (2) (a)(b)(c) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  In a statement, Director General on new media at the Zamfara Government House, Ibrahim Zauma, declared: “I am surprised because some of these people calling for the implementation of the report don’t know what the report entails entirely. It is not something that can be done in a twinkle of an eye. 