Download logo As part of the partnership between MONUSCO and its various partners, the commander of MONUSCO Bangladeshi contingent in Ituri met a delegation from the Youth Parliament of Bunia last Friday, January 28 at the military camp of the UN Mission in Ndoromo.  This meeting, which is part of the regular consultations between this youth structure and MONUSCO blue helmets, revolved around two items: the security situation in the province and youth contribution in Bunia to the restoration of peace in Ituri. For Ibrahim Gloire Abasi, the speaker of the Youth Parliament in Bunia, many young people choose the wrong target in attacking MONUSCO in the face of the persistent insecurity in Ituri, due to misinformation and lack of good information. This is why its structure is committed, from this month of February, to organizing a campaign to raise awareness among young people about the culture of peace, so that they no longer attack MONUSCO teams but rather preach peace. “We discussed the security situation in Bunia and in Ituri in general. We have condemned the renewed insecurity in which we are witnessing massacres and massive displacements of populations. This pushes some young people to attack MONUSCO teams, under the false pretext that it is MONUSCO that arms the attackers, which is obviously false; because not only there is no proof of such alleged collusion between MONUSCO and the armed groups, but above all because the securing of goods and people is primarily the responsibility of our government and not of MONUSCO. However, we pleaded in favor of the continuation of civil-military activities, such as the rehabilitation of roads, the construction of bridges, schools, etc., as MONUSCO has always done for the population and young people in particular. Finally, we are committed to organizing awareness campaigns in the various neighborhoods and the outskirts of Bunia for young people so that they no longer attack MONUSCO, which has nothing to do with the situation in our province,” said Ibrahim Gloire Abasi, the speaker of the Youth Parliament in Bunia. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Mission de l’Organisation des Nations unies en République démocratique du Congo (MONUSCO).