The National Leader and presidential aspirant of  All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu, has congratulated Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on his victory in the primary election held on Saturday, February 18, 2022. In a congratulatory message, yesterday, Tinubu said Oyetola’s resounding victory across the 332 wards in the state was an affirmation of his widely-acknowledged sterling performance in his first term. Tinubu said: “Last Saturday, All Progressives Congress members in Osun rose in their large numbers to exercise their democratic rights. “They voted massively to give Governor Adegboyega Oyetola a clear mandate to contest for a second term. “Their decision was expressed in very unambiguous and unmistaken terms.  I wholeheartedly congratulate and rejoice with him,” he said. The former governor said that Oyetola’s victory was also an expression of confidence the teeming party members in Osun had in his ability and capacity to propel the state to an even greater height in the second term. Tinubu commended the leadership of the party for ensuring the success of the primary election and for effectively mobilising its members to participate fully in the electoral process. According to him, the party members also deserve praise for not only conducting themselves in an orderly manner but for ensuring that their choices are expressed freely, fairly and unreservedly. He also applauded security officers for creating the environment, which enabled the direct primary election to be conducted peacefully. Tinubu said that Oyetola submitted himself to the people and people’s power had prevailed, adding that his commitment to democracy, non-violent elections, nation-building, loyalty to the party and party supremacy were particularly remarkable. He said that Moshood Adeoti and Lasun Yusuff, who also contested, should be commended for exercising their democratic franchise peacefully. The former governor particularly applauded the Chairman, Osun State APC Primary Election Committee, Kwara State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq and his team for an excellent job. He urged Oyetola to extend a hand of fellowship to those who vied for the ticket along with him. 