Different groups within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Alimosho Local Government are disagreeing over the feud between former Lagos State governor Bola Tinubu and interior minister Rauf Aregbesola. The APC Alimosho Liberation Movement and Veterans under the leadership of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, described the action of Senator Solomon Adeola and Abdullah Enilolobo-led group as “deceitful.” Senator Adeola and Enilolobo reportedly led some leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Alimosho area of Lagos state in a rally to pledge their allegiance to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The event, preceded by a press briefing at Igando-Ikotun Secretariat, Ikotun, Lagos, saw the crowd stage a walk for their support for Asiwaju Tinubu. Spokesman of the APC Alimosho Liberation Movement and Veterans Lateef Ibirogba, a former Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, said the group should come out to deny their loyalty to Aregbesola if they are not being “mischievous.” The Orelope-Adefulire group accused them of working against the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Tinubu. According to Ibirogba, Enilolobo led some of the party leaders to Osun state to support Aregbesola’s candidate against Governor Oyetola. Ibirogba said: “They also mobilised party members in all the six local government areas in Alimosho to give support of Prof Yemi Osinbajo’s presidential ambition in Ibadan, Oyo state capital, two weeks ago. We confronted them with evidence and they couldn’t deny it. What were they doing in Osun state on Saturday during the primary election? Were they not there to support Aregbesola’s candidate? They returned to Lagos in disgrace. “We were the group that came out on Sunday to rally against Aregbesola. This jolted them and their leaders, hence their show of shame today (yesterday). Their action today (yesterday) is medicine after death. They cannot deceive Asiwaju Tinubu with their fake support and rally. “We want to let them know that they cannot serve two masters at the same time. It is either you are for Asiwaju Tinubu or Aregbesola. We have made our stand known on Sunday that we are not for Aregbesola; our total loyalty is to Asiwaju Tinubu. Let them also come out to declare where they belong. You can’t announce your support for Asiwaju Tinubu in the public and still working for Aregbesola in private.” 