 Fireboy DML Fireboy DML’s ‘Peru is still paraing’ as the singer is set to release a new project Peru Airlines, featuring international acts 21 Savage and Blxst.   The singer’s management outfit Empire announced the project release in a tweet on Wednesday that has received over 14.8k likes. The project is expected to drop on Friday, February 11, 2022. FIREBOY DML
21 SAVAGE
BLXST
PERU FRIDAY  pic.twitter.com/ZUTzYWYpzE — EMPIRE (@EMPIRE) February 9, 2022 However, the tweet did not specify if this project is another remix of Fireboy’s single Peru. With his eyes set on international deals, Peru Airlines is his second time collaborating with international acts. Last year, Fireboy released Peru Remix featuring Grammy-award winning singer Ed Sheeran. This remix offered Fireboy DML his first debut on the billboard hot 100 charts at number 79 this week. Known for his soothing voice and love songs, Fireboy has also reached 300million+ streams on Audiomack and was presented with a plaque for this feat yesterday. CONGRATULATIONS @fireboydml ON 350 MILLION+ STREAMS ON #AUDIOMACK plug into the app for all new #FireboyDML releases: https://t.co/BWJFqQPKag pic.twitter.com/tC8Fp4KI1M — Audiomack Africa (@audiomackafrica) February 8, 2022 His debut album Laughter, Tears and Goosebumps, ramped up 153 million streams, and his sophomore album Apollo also gathered 154 million plays on Audiomack. The rest of the streams were generated by his singles. International collaboration remains a surefire way to penetrate global markets and audiences for every artiste. While many people have questioned the need for another Peru project, some Twitter users have chalked this to be a strategy. One that is targeted at creating a fan base and audience in the US. New Album Soon? The good news doesn’t end there. Fireboy fans are should get ready to ‘eat good’ as he has promised a new single to be released next month and his third album before summer. next single next month! third album before summer!  https://t.co/P7dhQm1vwK — Fireboy DML (@fireboydml) February 9, 2022 Olamide spilt the beans in a tweet asking the singer to choose his next single release and set a date for his album. To which the singer confirmed that he was ready to bring great sounds as he always has.  