North East leaders on Wednesday called for new leadership that will ensure inclusiveness and transparency in government. They made the call at the formal launch of The Nigeria Agenda (TNA) in Bauchi, the Bauchi State capital. An elder statesman, Yerima Aliyu Giade stressed the need for leaders with exceptional character and skills as critical to Nigeria’s development. “We want continuity and a person with a good agenda, so the project is timely. We want an agenda with an actor who is serious.” Giade supports The Nigeria Agenda mission, adding the programme would translate well in the choice of leadership. On her part, Mrs Naomi Joel, North East, Gombe State’s Commissioner for Women Affairs and Zonal Coordinator, Patriotic Coalition, said the Nigeria Agenda is a project that all Nigerians would benefit from. She said TNA would create awareness among Nigerians on the choice of credible and accountable leadership. “The awareness would bridge the  distance that exists between leaders in government and citizens in the country,” she said. Also Speaking former Commissioner for Information, Adamawa state, Alhaji Ahmad Sajoh, the Converner, reiterated that Nigeria leaders can address insecurity challenges facing the country. He called on North East leaders to support and champion the cause for effective leadership development systems of Nigeria. Sajoh commended the North East Coordinators for their resilience and steadfastness in promoting the TNA across the six states of Adamawa, Taraba, Gombe, Borno, Yobe  and Bauchi. Alhaji Umar Sade, former Bauchi State’s Commissioner for Information and Bauchi state Coordinator of TNA Said Nigeria needs leadership development systems; “It is incumbent on Nigerian  leaders to understand how cultural differences affect development and progress of the country. Mr ‘Niyi Akinsiju, Chief Advocate of  TNA explained that rather than promote individual ethnic nationalism more “Nigerians should be awakened to the need to emplace leadership that will ensure transparency in government and integrity in the business of governance. The TNA North East was launched  in Bauchi with stakeholders of all the North East states and their coordinators. 