Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, yesterday, met with leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, challenging them to work hard to ensure the party wins the Ngor-Okpala constituency by-election slated for Saturday. It was also an opportunity for the governor to admonish the party executive in the state to keep its doors open for all who wish to join the APC. Addressing the party leaders at the state headquarters on Okigwe Road, Owerri, the governor reminded them that what the APC needs most is quality leadership, which he said he is already providing and will continue to provide through his government programmes and policies. He urged the leadership to market the party in Ngor-Okpala with activities and achievements already recorded by his administration. He said the achievements are a yardstick that would make the party attractive to the electorate in the area and give other states in the South East cause to join the APC. Uzodimma, who informed the leaders that his ambition is to leave APC stronger and bigger than he met it, urged them to support him. The governor thanked the State Working Committee for putting the meeting together, saying it was important to him for two reasons: to reiterate his earlier promise to return APC back to the people and give the leadership autonomy to manage the party; and to stress the importance of Ngor-Okpala constituency Assembly by-election. He said: “There is no small election in politics, these days, hence all members should be concerned and involved so that the party can win. It is imperative for the leadership to share responsibilities towards mobilising and stimulating Ngor-Okpala APC members to prepare for the Saturday, February 26 election.” Uzodimma took time to educate the members on the current election process, saying: “All members must be committed from voting point to collation centres without relaxing and must avoid, after election, unnecessary blame game because what the party needs is nothing but a win from hard work.” Key leaders, who graced the meeting, include: Deputy Governor, Prof. Placid Njoku; former governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim; Deputy Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly, Amara Iwuanyanwu; Secretary to the Government of Imo State, Cosmas Iwu; Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie; former APC State Chairman and Malcolm Nlemigbo, among others.