Imo State government, yesterday, said the former Director General (DG) of Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, “is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) mole in the midst of APC.” This was contained in a statement signed by Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser to the Governor, Oguwike Nwachuku.
It said: “Lukman, who recently hurriedly resigned his appointment as DG of the PGF, to avoid a pending sack over unbecoming demeanour, has continued to run his mouth in ways that suggest his sojourn in the midst of progressive politicians in APC was nothing but a design to spy on the party in the interest of his co-conspirators in the opposition PDP.” It said: “The point is that Lukman deserves our pity. He has lost touch with the current reality in politics, and except he retraces his steps by committing wholeheartedly to the supremacy of the party encapsulated in the power invested in the leadership, it would be difficult for him to deny he is not a mole in APC.” The statement reads in part: “On Monday, February 21, Lukman was credited by a section of media to have accused some respected APC leaders, including governors, of holding the party captive and working with the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) against the February 26 convention that has been postponed to March 26. “Ordinarily, we would have ignored Lukman if he did not have the misfortune of bringing the name of Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State into the picture of his thoughtless and careless statement. “‘Interestingly, perhaps, except for Dapo Abiodun, three of them –Mai Mala Buni, Yahaya Bello and Hope Uzodimma – are all aspiring to become Presidential or Vice-Presidential candidates,’ Lukman reportedly said. “It is obvious that Lukman had been engaged by enemies of democracy to deliberately discredit respected APC governors and leaders, like Uzodimma, just because their selfish political permutations are not working out.” “Even when Uzodimma, barely two weeks ago, came out to distance himself from any Presidential contest, Lukman would deliberately overlook that to make insinuations that were borne out of hatred for Uzodimma, due to the latter’s rising profile in APC and the trust his colleagues have reposed on him because of his many years of experience in politics and sincerity of purpose. “One would have thought that Lukman must have learnt his lesson by now, given that he is still being haunted by the illogical spirit that led to his near sack in office recently. But how wrong can we possibly be!”