Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has described the outcome of its gubernatorial primary election in which Bisi Kolawole emerged the standard bearer, as a “credible, free and fair contest.” It, therefore, urged all aggrieved aspirants and stakeholders to embrace the outcome of the primary election in the spirit of sportsmanship. The State Working Committee (SWC) of the party, led by the Acting-Chairman, Hon. Lanre Omolase, stated that after a review of the election, the party commended the National Working Committee (NWC) for its transparency and impartiality. It charged all aspirants and their supporters to regard the contest, as a family affair, in which there should be neither victor nor vanquished. Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Raphael Adeyanju, in a statement issued in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, said the primary was keenly contested by 17 aspirants and after the election, the second runner up, Segun Oni, openly congratulated Kolawole, who emerged winner. While congratulating members of the party for their orderly disposition, Omolase said most of the aspirants endorsed the outcome of the election and promised to work with the party’s candidate to emerge next governor of the state. “We had 17 aspirants, most of who accepted the outcome of the primary election. If only two of them have not made up their minds, that cannot discredit the outcome of the exercise, because they are in the minority. We, however, still urge them not to behave like bad losers. They should embrace the winner, because we are ready to carry everybody along in the project. They should be reminded that the success of the party in the election will be a collective responsibility,” he said. The committee also commended former leader of PDP in Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose and other leaders for their maturity in handling the party’s affairs despite what it described as “the over zealousness of some aspirants and supporters.” Commending the party leaders for the timely commencement of the reconciliation process, the SWC noted that Kalawole has started reaching out to other aspirants to forge a common front towards achieving victory in the election. “The gesture will yield positive results because of Kolawole’s good antecedents. He had worked with most of aspirants, either as a political representative or as a party official. He was one of the greatest supporters of Governor Segun Oni in the House of Assembly during his (Oni’s) regime. “He was also coordinator of Prof. Kolapo Eleka’s campaign organisation, when he (Eleka) emerged the party’s gubernatorial candidate when he was former deputy governor to Fayose.  He is also a close associate of Abiodun Olujumi and other aspirants,” he said.