• Release of four more Chibok girls excites UNICEF
• N’East govs donate N20m to banditry victims Gunmen have killed a former Sole Administrator of Dogon Dawa Development Area in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State, Alhaji Idris Damari, and abducted several people in the community. Another set also abducted over 50 persons in Faskari Local Council of Katsina State. The bandits, who attacked the Kaduna community, shot indiscriminately in the area, and a bullet hit Damari. He died in the process. Journalists were told that the gunmen abducted many people as they fled. “The bandits were yet to contact the family of the abducted. The deceased was buried on Monday according to Islamic rites,” a resident of the community said. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Kaduna, Mohammed Jalige, could not react immediately to the incident. THE terrorists, who kidnapped at least 50 persons, moved them into the dreaded Rugu forest at Ruwan Godiya village, Faskari. A source from the area said the terrorists stormed the community on Sunday evening, riding on over 60 motorcycles, armed with automatic weapons. He added that the attack occurred despite the presence of more than 20 military personnel in the village. Spokesperson for the police command in the state, SP Gambo Isah, was yet to respond to inquiry on the issue at the time of report. THE release of four Chibok girls to the Borno State government elicited excitement from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), which called for immediate release of all conflict-affected children held in captivity in the North East. UNICEF Country Representative, Peter Hawkins, noted that 276 schoolgirls were abducted from their community in 2014. “UNICEF is relieved over the released girls and their families,” he noted. MEANWHILE, the North East Governors Forum has donated N20 million to victims of banditry in Anka and Bukkuyum local councils of Zamfara State. Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno presented the cheque to Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara on Monday in Government House, Gusau. Zulum, who expressed sadness over the incident, called on traditional and religious leaders to embark on consistent prayers to end the menace.