Organisers of the HangOut with Bikerz have said the biking community is passionate about promoting business patronage among indigenous micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) to help boost the country’s economy. They said this necessitated the need to hold the maiden edition of Nigeria’s power biking competition tagged: ‘’Pillions HangOut with Bikerz’ by incorporating both power bikers and non-bikers to create a platform to promote social capital and business networking for indigenous businesses. According to the organiser of the event, Awomolo Opeyemi, there is a need to promote love and patronise indigenous businesses, as this will encourage young entrepreneurs and business owners to not only stay in business but also make a profit and in return give back to the government to grow the country’s GDP. He said the core focus of the event, which would hold on February 19, 2022 at the Freedom Park, Lagos, is to promote the nation’s building through the interaction of people from various backgrounds as well as create awareness of MSMEs and large enterprises within the power bikers’ community. Opeyemi added that the event also seeks to promote safe riding as well as create a platform for expansion of social capital base for people to know the business side of one another and encourage patronage through business networking and promotions. “We are particular about growing Nigeria by aligning with Nigerian brands, which puts Nigeria in the front burner in economic development by promoting indigenous brands for all asunder. A lot of business owners, managing directors, entrepreneurs and other professionals are in the teaming biking industry. “It is of no doubt that extreme sport such as racing is beginning to gain traction in this clime of the world and as such this event is showcasing bikers in their various professions. This is why every sponsor of this event is carefully selected because they are indigenous brands, from the beverages to telecommunications, health and other sectors. When we promote and patronise ourselves, we grow the income of these businesses, make them say in business, which will in return save capital flight and grow the GDP of the country,” he said. The President, Alimosho Bikerz Motorcycle Club (AMBC), Akinsola Akinseye, said over 2, 000 people from across the country are expected to attend the event, which will also serve as tourism that will attract bikers and people from across Africa and beyond and in return boost Forex to enhance the economy.