Excitement as court affirms Matawalle as Zamfara gov
The national reconciliation team of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has affirmed Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, as leader of the party in the state. This has, however, elicited angst in the camp of Senator Ibrahim Shekarau. A letter signed by the Chief of Staff to the Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee of APC, Abdullahi Gashua, stated that the Kano governor has been appointed to head a six-member National/State Joint Supervisory Committee that will decide the formation of a new party structure in the state. The committee, which has Shekarau as member, comprises Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle; former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; and Senator Abba Ali. The arrangement is part of the new template developed by APC headquarters to harmonise the party structure and resolve the crisis crippling the party in Kano. According to the new template, a bottom-top caucus will be constituted at each local council with serving ministers, senators and other federal and state legislators, serving council chairmen and their deputies, commissioners, special advisers and one woman to be nominated by the governor in consultation with Shekarau. The joint supervisory committee has seven days to rectify new wards and local councils party structure that would be submitted to them by the local council caucus, before submitting to the national headquarters for validation. In a statement released to journalists, yesterday, the Shekarau-led G-7 did not only reject the position of the Mai Mala Buni template, but regretted that the party was finally submitted to the governor. MEANWHILE, the party has applauded the Federal High Court ruling affirming Bello Matawalle as the Governor of Zamfara State. The Caretaker Secretary, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe, expressed satisfaction, yesterday in Abuja, with the decision of the Federal High Court, Gusau, saying it was in line with laid down rules and regulations. APC argued that the development would undoubtedly encourage Matawalle’s administration to continue implementing the socio-economic development plans for the state and contribute towards efforts to tackle security challenges in the North West geopolitical zone. He noted: “On behalf of the National Chairman of the APC National Caretaker Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, the party hails the judiciary for defending the Constitution and the popular mandate of Matawalle as the Governor of Zamfara.” “Matawalle has the right to assembly and association with respect to joining or belonging to a political party. In exercise of his right of freedom of association guaranteed under Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution, he can defect to any party of his choice and still maintain his seat as the Governor.” 