Not too long ago, Nigerians breathed a sigh of relief after the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s foot dragging but later found its voice to call insurgents/bandits terrorists. The declaration was enough to calm nerves and beam hope in several quarters as the people believed that the military would go all out in a marching order to flush out the terrorists from the land. But alas! it seems the declaration fuelled an inferno as the insecurity situation remains unabated and unpredictable. A recent uptick in the senseless killings saw the Senate in disbelief and shock. In their deliberations the other day, they were caught in their ignorance to ask the same questions that filters in the public domain, even as they collectively reacted like the masses over opinions on the floor. In their disbelief and bemused state, the Senate did ask, why are bandits/insurgents still very active after being declared terrorists? Well, the answer to such a question will remain blowing in the wind. But let us take a look at what the famous writer, Shakespeare did write in Romeo and Juliet, where he asked: What is in a name? Of course, Shakespeare did not think that names should matter very much because if we call a rose by other name, it would still smell as sweet. Therefore, calling bandits terrorists would not make them saints or have them defeated overnight. What is needed to curb the relentless rise of terror in the country is for the government to have the political will to mean what is says and say what it means; also, for the military to engage the terrorists with superior fire arms and intelligence. The controversy over the military’s inability to contain the terrorists can be said to have a relationship with corruption and poor leadership role in human affairs. In principle, a government that goes with the flow of law and order politically, carry out reforms without any biased intention will definitely win the society’s heart. But whereas it engages in questionable dealings and shy away to pass judgment on those whose fingers are soiled in corrupt act simply because they play along, will forever make government lose its moral value before the people. However the insecurity issue seems to have recently sparked off a great national rebirth and radical approach deeper and more profound in the Senate. Their deliberations on insecurity got to a point that some thought provoking statements filled the Hallowed Chambers. First, the federal government was given an urgent point of order to take drastic actions to bring to an end the act of banditry and kidnapping in the country. In the search for lasting solutions, Senator Kabir Abdullah Barkiya said, “Enough is enough. We should not just be condemning what is happening… after declaring them terrorists, we should not allow them continue their stupid act…” he ended up blaming the military, claiming that the military knows where the bandits are based. Then came the lamentations of the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, whose understanding is consumed in wondering why the terrorists have not been dealt with ruthlessly after the declaration. Furthermore, that even in the face of dire scarce resources, the government has increased military funding. Therefore, the need for the military to wake up to its task demands no excuse. Predictably, the drama in the Senate suggests two things. First, it denotes the failure of leadership to do the needful by taking the bull by the horn. Second, politicians who claim to be guided by the principles of democracy and believe that the people are where the power and control rest have also failed woefully to protect them. Again, we ask, why has insecurity become such a powerful political tool that government cannot dismantle? It must be noted that, before this administration came to power in 2015, it promised to get rid of insecurity among other ills in the society within the shortest possible time. Today, almost seven years down the line what Nigerians hear daily is either blame or excuses. As it were, between the current state of insecurity and the poor economy, one cannot figure which is the greatest disservice to the people. Given the outcry from the people, all the government needed to do is to give Nigerians back their lives. Insecurity has cast dark clouds over the people in several parts of the country. The masses go about their daily business in fear as they are scared of the risk of running into a cross fire by bandits or fall into the hands of kidnappers. It is shameful that under his watch, President Buhari government allows the nation to drift into turmoil as kidnappings and killings have become the order of the day. Nigerians have become victim of government’s political fallacy. Quite often, when politicians speak, gaffes gushed from their lips and are best described as public relation disaster. This is why in the eye of the masses, political office holders and politicians in general have betrayed and is betraying the trust reposed on them. Nothing irritates the masses more than the helplessness in watching the balkanisation of policies. Often times, government and its officials claim that Nigeria is doing well. But the wellbeing only translates in favour of those in government and party people that benefit from government policies. While majority of the masses suffer as basic necessities price skyrockets daily. It is disheartening that certain policies are designed to suit a particular religion or ethnic interest, while selfish emotion and sympathy towards certain groups are displayed by government publicly. It is important for government to purge itself from the divide and rule system and stop hiding under the illusion that the country is bigger than any group or interest. Really, it is easy to say that government should pursue national interest, rather than sectional interest. But often times, the reverse is the case. That is the dilemma we face as a nation and the reason we are unable to defeat the bandits after they have been declared as terrorists. 