• Terrorists collect levy in four Katsina LGs, CNG alleges
• Niger gov charges soldiers to rid forests of bandits Nigerian soldiers operating in the North East have killed about120 Boko Haram/ Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operation (DMO), Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, disclosed this, yesterday, to newsmen in Abuja.
Security operatives are on special duty in the North East from January 20 to February 22, 2022. “Our troops consolidated their operational success against Boko Haram and ISWAP in the last three weeks. Some of the areas of operation are Bama, Gwoza, Monguno, Kanduga, Damboa, Damasak, Gudumbali and Nganzi local councils,” he said, adding that Kukawa, Chibok, Sambisa Forest and Kirta Wulgo in Marte Local Council of Borno State.” HOWEVER, the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), Katsina State Chapter, has alleged that terrorists are collecting levies and taxes from residents of communities in four local councils of the state. The group identified Batsari, Dandume, Faskari and Safana as the councils where terrorists collect such dues. Chairman of CNG, North West, Jamilu Charanchi, disclosed, yesterday, that Kasai and Daurawa communities in Batsari, and Mahuta community in Dandume were paying terrorists such levies. Charanchi added that Kanin Haki community in Faskari, and Barebari village in Safana also pay. NIGER State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has tasked soldiers to demonstrate their prowess through the coordinated air and ground assault to flush out terrorists from forests in the state. Governor Bello’s suggestion was as a result of incessant and sporadic increase in attacks by the terrorists in Shiroro, Munya, Mariga, Rafi and Paikoro local councils. Bello, who decried the constant attacks on many communities and consequential loss of life and property, as well as military bases, lamented the undermining of the efforts of security agencies drafted to the areas. “Terrorists are daring the capability of the military. We must win this battle against the terrorists. We must increase and sustain military operations to comb the forests. This is expedient because our people are dying and the living are becoming more agitated and hopeless,” the governor said. 