Download logo As the African Union celebrates its 20th anniversary, Expo 2020 Dubai will dedicate Sunday 27th of February to honour the works of the African people, celebrating the continents day.  “It is our intention to bring our African diaspora, the people of the United Arab Emirates, and the international community a day (and show) they will never forget. Bringing African vibrancy, colour and the music of our people to tantalise the taste buds of one and all” Dr. Levi Uche Madueke, AU Expo 2020 Commissioner General sets the scene for what is bound to be Expo’s biggest day yet, in Dubai. Speaking ahead of the Honour Day which has been set aside to commemorate the African Union (AU) at Expo 2020 Dubai. National and Honour Days at Expo are moments to celebrate each of the Participants, shining light on their culture and achievements, and showcasing their pavilions as well as programming. The Africa Day commemoration on the 27th of February will see an AU delegation led by the African Union Commssion (AUC) Deputy Chairperson, Her Excellency Dr. Monique Nsanzabaganwa, participating in the official flag raising ceremony before engaging with United Arab Emirates (UAE) officials in biletaral engagements which will continue to build on the strides taken in the emolution of the MoU signed between the AU and the UAE in 2019. “At the heart of our programmes, are the African people and building a sustainable future that will lead us all towards shared prosperity, as a united people” remarked AU Commission Deputy Chairperson, Her Excellency Dr. Monique Nsanzabaganwa. “Agenda 2063 continues to be the perfect launch pad in the endeavour to better the lives of all Africans and the pavilion at Expo has been a great extension of this great work. Bringing the global village to Africa away from Africa, building trust and extending an olive branch for potential friendships and business,” “Throughout our presence at this global exposition, we have continued to demonstrate that Africa is open and ready for business. Spotlighting some of the life changing opportunities that our continent have to offer and we have done this alognside our member states; collaborating our efforts to ensure that the correct narrative is told, by us.” continued HE, Dr. Nsanzabaganwa. The AUC Deputy Chairperson went on to say that “the celebration of Africa at Expo presents another opportunity for our continent to demonstrate its infinite might, a show of futuristic determination that is shared amongst all member states,” “It is not just an African Union day but an Africa Day in union, alongside our participating member states and those who will be joining the festivities online” concluded the AUC’s first women Deputy Chairperson. The day will also see a cultural performance on the stage of nations at the towering Al Wasl plaza and conclude with a star studded concert in the evening. Bringing the rhythm and dance of Africa to Expo. Pavilion Director, Leslie Richer made a call to members of the Diaspora based in the region to make good of the opportunity to witness (in-person) African genius as continental and global stars take to the stage in Jubilee park, performing their global hits, bringing the curtain down; in style. “We are incredible storytellers, narrating these through song and dance, spoken word and art. A diverse offering that will leave those in attendance in awe, most importantly bring us all closer to home” commented Director Richer. Members of the public who wish to attend the concert, are encouraged to apply for tickets, provided by the African Union on the following link: The public, media and all other interested parties can keep up-to-date with the latest out of Dubai as well as get all the necessary information surrounding the AU activities or events by visiting the official AU at Expo 2020 website: https://africaexpo2020dubai.au.int/en Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Union (AU).