Primate of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Most Rev’d Henry Ndukuba, has urged the Federal Government to provide a fresh civilian-oriented Constitution for the country, instead of the current one formulated by the military government in 1999. The Primate noted that such constitution will address the fundamental issues hampering the nation’s growth, unity and prosperity. Ndukuba, who is also the Bishop of Abuja, said the nation needs a courageous, empathic and caring leaders to steer its affairs. Cautioning President Muhammadu Buhari on plans to remove fuel subsidy, the Primate observed that such policy would have a negative impact on Nigerians because of the excruciating hardship caused by economic depression and corruption that has ravaged the nation’s public institutions. He said: “The removal of subsidies at this time would portend untold hardship for Nigerians, especially those in the middle and low-income brackets. It will lead to increase in price of fuel at filling stations, increase in transport fares, general inflation and make more people poor.” The Primate also called on government to stop further borrowing and to seek for more efficient infrastructure financing sources that will lessen the nation’s expenditure. Earlier in his speech, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, urged the Church of Nigeria to use its numerical strength to enthrone good leadership at all facet of the polity. The governor urged the church to encourage its members to come out and vote during elections and also to stand for elective positions. “If the Church does not like what is happening in Nigeria; the ravaging insecurity, lack of meaningful development, mass poverty, unending economic pains on ordinary Nigerians, the spate of violence across the country, attack on women and children, discrimination and widespread social, economic and political injustices, the general lack of hope and direction, among others, your members must be actively involved to effect positive changes,” he said.