CMS Grammar School (CMS), Bariga and Babington Macaulay Junior Seminary (BMJS) emerged boys and girls’ winners respectively at the eight Inter-Collegiate Sports Fiesta tagged, “Bariga 2020.” At the end of the three-day competition, which featured football, volleyball, basketball, athletics, tug of war, table tennis, scrabble, chess, among others, CMS came tops with 12 gold, eight silver and seven bronze medals to win in the boys’ category. In the other results at the competition held at the CMS Sports Complex, Bariga, Igbobi College, Yaba (ICY) placed second with seven gold, five silver and five bronze medals, BMJS was third with four gold, nine silver and two bronze medals, while Anglican Comprehensive High School, Ipaja (ANCHOS) finished fourth with two gold, three silver and four bronze medals. Bishop Howells Memorial Grammar School, Bariga (BHMGS) finished fifth with one gold, one silver and eight bronze medals. In the girls’ class, BMJS was first with 19 gold, nine silver and six bronze medals to top the medals’ table, while Lagos Anglican Girls Surulere (LAGGS) placed second with six gold, nine silver, and eight bronze medals, BHMGS took the third position with one gold, three silver and four bronze medals, ANCHOS fourth with three silver and seven bronze medals and AGCK won two silver to finished fifth. In the primary schools’ group, Cathedral of St. Jude Nursery and Primary School came first with four gold, three silver and one bronze medals, while Lagos Anglican Nursery and Primary School took the second position with two gold, three silver and two bronze medals, as St. Stephen Nursery and Primary School, Fadeyi finished third with one gold, two silver and five bronze medals and Remilekun Primary School fifth with one gold medal. Speaking on the occasion, Lagos Anglican Schools Management Board Executive Secretary, Ven. Victor Ayo Olusa, said the event was “an avenue for the students to develop their spirituality, physical fitness, to foster relationship and to develop their talents. I will advise parents to give their wards the opportunity to discover their hiding talents aside from academics. Chairman, Organising Committee and Technical Committee, Rev Canon Dr. Osunyomi Bamidele, said the sports fiesta was to uncover talents among the students. “The competition encouraged unity in diversity, cooperation, inter-personal relationship and to assist them to build careers, especially in the area of sports,” he said. Rev Bamidele, who is also the Principal of BMJS, described the feat of his girls’ feat as an excellent one “this is because they began preparation early as soon as the last edition of the competition ended. “Already, some of our students were also discovered by some of the national officials, especially in the swimming event. The swimming officials discovered two students from our school and they have requested that the students should be registered with the Lagos State Swimming Association so that they can feature in the next national sports festival,” he stated.