 Susan Esisi is the CEO of Susan Chanel Beauty Confucius, the historical Chinese philosopher, once said: “In a country well governed, poverty is something to be ashamed of. In a country badly governed, wealth is something to be ashamed of.” This could be assumed to be the mind-set of Susan Esisi, CEO of Susan Chanel Beauty Skincare brand, who is championing initiatives to ensure that the poor have food on their table. Esisi, an industrious, self-made woman who has become a household name in the Nigerian beauty industry and expanding her business to other parts of the world, including the United States, reserves a special place in her heart for the needy: the victims of a dysfunctional society. The University of Lagos alumni is a rare breed among humans, who, by nature, have tendencies to always consider themselves first before others. Despite being a successful cosmetologist, the Cross River-born beauty therapist undertakes monthly distribution of cooked and raw food items to poor women and the indigent in Lagos State, stressing that she was raised to care for the less privileged. Achieved by personal effort without any collaboration, the renowned beautician mobilises her team and workers to earmarked neighbourhoods in Nigeria’s most populous state to give back to society, with significant cost to her. “At the end of every month or at most once in two months, I usually try to put a smile on the face of those suffering from hunger”, the CEO of Susan Chanel Beauty said after a recent charity outreach. “My business is not just about selling skincare products and making money. I was brought up to remember and care for the less privileged in society. Consequently, I have integrated that ideal into my business. I want the Susan Chanel Beauty brand to be known for giving back to society. “The foodstuff was bought with the proceeds of my sales in the past two months. And I have to also thank my customers for their loyalty to brand Susan Chanel Beauty,” added Esisi. The idea many persons who perhaps have reached the threshold of being regarded as successful have is those in need lack basic things of life because they have not worked hard enough. However, Esisi believes there will always be the poor around; hence, it is expedient to reach out to them. “We cannot pretend that our society does not have people who struggle to have even one meal in a day. They are around in large numbers. And the least, the well-heeled in society can do is to save a neighbour from hunger,” she pointed out. She added: “Every successful business and every successful CEO owe humanity a duty which must be paid by giving back to society. Philanthropy offers us an avenue to discharge our duty to humanity.” 