• More subsidy for petrol as cooking gas may soar
• Evacuate stranded Nigerians, Reps, Ohanaeze, lawyer tell FG
•  We’ll do so once airports are opened – FG Russia’s invasion of Ukraine rattled global financial and energy markets, causing oil prices to spike and financial instruments to fall after Russian troops moved into Ukraine by air, land and sea.
  
Although crude oil price yesterday soared to about $105 per barrel, a development is last seen in 2014, Nigeria’s economy may face fresh uncertainties.  Similarly, with major food items like wheat being imported from Russia, there are concerns about food inflation if the tension lingers.  MEANWHILE, Nigeria relies majorly on imported wheat, importing 650,000 tonnes in 2020. The volume of imports has been on the increase as local production dwindles. In the first quarter of 2021 alone, Russia’s wheat exports to Nigeria were valued at N37.2 billion.
  
A former adviser at the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), Dauda Garuba, who noted that Russia occupies a central place in the international oil and gas production and distribution, decried the rising oil price due to the war and added that it may have no benefit for Nigeria.
  
“Russia exerts a strong control and influence over the Caspian Sea, which holds the gas pipeline to Europe. To this extent, it can be imagined that any slightest impulse in that axis will automatically reverberate globally,” he said.  REACTING to the outbreak of war, a lawyer, Henry Chibuike Ugwu, said what is playing out is the crystallisation of a meticulously orchestrated plot by Russia to assert itself in the international community and to remove itself from a position where it can be easily threatened or bullied by the West.
 
“In 2014, following the Ukrainian Revolution that led to the removal of the President of Ukraine who was an ally of Russia, Crimea was invaded by Russia and many countries, and the EU responded with sanctions against Russia. However, Russia responded with its own sanctions, and tensions had become intensified from that point till recently when Russia launched its attack,” he said.
 
According to him, the bane of the controversy is the expansion of the West, EU, and NATO into the countries in Eastern Europe, especially those that were part of the defunct USSR. Ugwu argued that with countries like Lithuania, Poland and Latvia (all former USSR territory) now fully part of the EU and NATO, critical allies to the West, it jeopardises Russia’s control of the area, as a world superpower. He explained that Russia by the recent series of invasions in Ukraine is asserting itself in its area of control and repelling the subtle infiltration of the West into its region.
 
For Nigeria, he noted that Russia’s attack implies that international politics is not a sentimental affair, but a game of interests.
 
“Nigeria must consolidate its relationship with critical stakeholders in the international community and take a clear-cut stance on issues in a way that protects the interests of Nigeria. Our leadership must strive to get governance right because if we continue to deteriorate as a country, there is no guarantee that our interests would not conflict with that of a superpower or emerging power in Africa that will lead to dire consequences for the country. We must take active measures to assert Nigeria as a regional and global power in a way that can guarantee our survival and security,” he declared.  “So, Russia is equally guilty of what they are accusing the Westerners of,” he pointed out.
 
He said that Ukraine wanted to use its sovereignty to determine its own fate, while two regions in Eastern Ukraine want to be autonomous by being a part of Russia.  In his reaction, a Port Harcourt-based internal law and jurisprudence lawyer, Chief Festus Oguche, said
Russia has violated the instruments on its international obligations. He said: “If Russia’s sovereignty and existence are being threatened, it can take actions in any manner that it deems fit to protect itself. “I think that is what Russia is doing essentially though it fears could be unfounded but then again you look at it from the point of international human rights law where the existence and life of persons who are civilians and not combatants are threatened. “At the end of the day, the refugee situation in Kyiv would implode on the rest of the eastern European countries.” Ogwuche stated that Russia should have settled the issues diplomatically rather than in a full-blown war. “I guess the Russian president was really hasty in his action because there are a lot of alternatives that could have been taken, he argued. He advised the Federal Government to take care of its citizens in such a situation, adding that no nation abandons its citizens in times of war in foreign lands. “A lot of countries, particularly African countries have gone to evacuate their citizens, especially those very vulnerable to attacks. The FG can’t leave Nigerians there to their fate for whatever reasons be it finance. I don’t think Nigeria is so poor that it cannot evacuate its citizens,” he said, adding that Russia’s action is contrary to the principles upon which the United Nations was founded. As the war rages on, an International constitutional law expert and the Executive Director of The Integrity Friends for Truth and Peace Initiative (TIFPI) Livingstone Wechie has chided the Federal Government for what he described as “nonchalance” towards evacuating Nigerians from the war-zone. According to him, Ukraine today is one of Nigeria’s highest education tourism destinations with hundreds of thousands of Nigerians locked in that territory, which should not be taken for granted. He stressed that the Nigerian government should be held accountable for any loss of life of “our citizens for failing to do the needful.” IN the same vein, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari, as a result of urgency facilitate the evacuation of over 3,500 Nigerians mainly Igbo, who are stranded in Ukraine. In a statement in Abakaliki the Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro said reports available show that Nigerians especially, students, medical tourists, and others are trapped and stranded in Ukraine, noting that they deserve to be evacuated from the crisis-ridden country before the war escalates. He added that the Nigerian Government should establish contact with her Foreign mission and Embassy in Kyiv to facilitate the process of making it easier for the evacuation, adding that the Federal Government should take responsibility for their safety and security. “We can not afford to lose any Nigerian to the current Russian military invasion of Ukraine. The highest number of Nigerians schooling in Europe are in Ukraine, it’s surprising that Presidency has been quiet now the nations of the world have condemned the actions of Russian President,” the group said. Also, the House of Representatives yesterday called on the authorities to evacuate Nigerians from Ukraine. The decision followed the adoption of a motion of urgent Importance sponsored by Mr. Ahmed Munir at the plenary by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. The House justified the position, saying it was based on the worsening conflict between Russia and Ukraine. In effect, the House mandated the Majority Leader, Hon. Alhassan Ado-Doguwa and Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hon. Buba Yakub to liaise with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA) with the view to airlift Nigerians, particularly students back to the country without further delay. The House also mandated the Majority Leader and his team to travel to Ukraine on Friday (today) to achieve the goal. The House mandated the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ascertain the exact figures of Nigerians affected by this conflict and put in place comprehensive monitoring, evaluation and evaluation mechanism. HOWEVER, the Federal Government has said it would embark on the evacuation of Nigerians living in Ukraine as soon as the airports in the country are opened. The government in a statement yesterday by a spokesperson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Francisca Omayuli, said it received a surprise, reports of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. The FG added that Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine has assured of the safety of Nigerians and measures being taken to keep them safe and facilitate the evacuation of those who wish to leave. “The Federal Government wishes to assure the families with loved ones in Ukraine that as soon as the airports in the country are opened, it would assist in facilitating the evacuation of Nigerians who are willing to leave,” it said.