Nigeria’s golf poster girl, Georgia Oboh, is set to battle some of the world’s best lady golfers at the Magical Kenya Ladies Open Championship, which holds from February 10 to 13 at the Baobab Course at Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi County. Among Oboh’s opponents at the Ladies European Tour (LET) competition are Esther Henseleit from Germany, who won the maiden Magical Kenya Ladies Open in 2019, Lee-Anne Pace from South Africa, Julia Engstrom from Sweden, Sanna Nuutinen from Finland and Olivia Cowan from Germany, among others. According to the hosts, Kenya will be represented by the Nyali Golf and Country Club pro, Bhavi Shah, who will be joined by amateurs Naomi Wafula, Mercy Nyanchama, Chanelle Wangari and Faith Chemutai. The event will be broadcast to millions of people worldwide and also locally on free-to-air television. The Guardian gathered from Georgia’s father, Godfrey Oboh, that the Nigerian’s team will depart for Kenya from Manchester, England, today and arrive in the East African country on time for some practice sessions tomorrow. Sponsored by Kenyan Breweries through its Johnnie Walker product range, the company has promised to provide a memorable experience to both the fans and players during the four-day Ladies European Tour (LET)-sanctioned tournament. It added that a Pro-Am event would precede the tournament on February 9, a day before the tournament’s opening round at the continent’s single PGA-accredited course Announcing the programme for the competition, yesterday, Johnie Walker said the tournament, the only LET-sanctioned women’s professional golf competition in the East African region, is part of its 100th anniversary celebrations this year, adding that it will leverage the tournament to highlight the organisation’s continued legacy on diversity and inclusion. KBL Managing Director John Musunga said: “We are delighted to be partnering with the Ladies European Tour for this year’s Magical Kenya Ladies Open. This is part of our continued commitment towards supporting the growth of golf in the country, which is currently on an upward trajectory. Through this sponsorship, we aim to cement our relationship with the tournament, which has proven to be a premier ladies’ competition in the region.” The Magical Kenya Open is the first of 31 events lined up in the Ladies European Tour 2022 calendar. A Pro-Am event will precede the tournament on February 9, a day before the tournament’s opening round at the continent’s single PGA-accredited course. The tournament, first held in 2019, will feature a field of 96 golfers drawn from 25 different countries, who will battle it out for the largest share of the prize purse, which is set at €300,000, which is about N 142, 504,101.