 Lounge Wear Photo Lounge Wears Every Lagosian can relate to spending over ten hours daily on their way to the office, at work, and back.   With work being a major part of our lives, there’s no reason why we shouldn’t look our best while hustling our daily 2k. Looking your best might just be the confidence boost you need to kickstart having a great day. Let’s let you in on a little secret; you don’t need to go on a shopping haul or own an endless amount of clothes to look your best every day. The only secret is to create new outfits using the clothing staples you already have in your wardrobe. Need some help figuring out how to create a stunning work outfit? Here are some great clothing staples you should get your hands on: Oversized Blazer Dress Photo Olarslim Instagram If you don’t already own a blazer in your wardrobe, you should probably work on getting one right after you’re done reading this. Easy to pull off and still very classy, you can pair your oversized blazer with a dress, shirt, or a top and jeans. Whatever you choose, opt for bold designs and stand-out colours. It doesn’t have to be just black or white; we’ll advise getting as many colours as you can. Oooh! and let’s not forget, oversized blazers can be worn everywhere, for a casual brunch with the girls, a dinner date, or even a night out at the club. Wide Leg Pants Photo Chicamastyle Instagram UHM! YES! A trendy clothing staple, we can’t remember a time when wide-leg pants went out of style. Back to the top of the fashion trend table, these pants come in every colour. They’re for the heels, sandals or even a pair of flat shoes, babe. Try pairing these pants with a pair of blazers. For colour ideas, brown, beige, white and even black are staples you should invest money in. monochrome outfit Photo Popsugar Whatever you do, own at least one monochrome look. Timeless, chic and stunning, these looks literally scream confidence and would have heads turning every time you walk by. Let’s not forget accessorizing. The right accessories would move your outfit to a straight ten out of ten. Lounge Wear Photo Lounge Wears Just because you work in a corporate setting doesn’t mean you cannot tone your outfit down with the right loungewear. These breezy outfits are guaranteed to not only have you looking like the snack you are but comfortable as you go about your day. They’re perfect for out of office work and days you know you’ll need to be on your feet for longer; just wear comfy sneakers. Jumpsuit Photo GoodTomiCha For days you don’t want to stress over an outfit, throw on a one-piece jumpsuit. Smart and effective for getting the work done, jumpsuits can be paired with a statement belt and great shoes. Statement Blouse & Jeans Photo Cala Gogo The right statement blouse, paired with fitting jeans, and you’re good to go. Remember to also play with accessories. Accessorizing the right way adds some glam to your outfit, and the right accessories can transform an otherwise simple look into a stunning one worthy of some runway time.  