Fresh from a resounding victory at the Lagos Boxing Championship held at the YUCATECO Arena, Ikorodu, Nigeria’s light heavyweight champion, Jude Ilo, says his next move is a bid for the world crown held by one of his compatriots, Lawrence Okolie. ILo, at the weekend, Idowu Okusote with a technical knock out decision, in the Lagos State Boxing competition put together to create more awareness in Boxing and also discover talents from the grassroots by the Nigeria Boxing Board of Control. Ilo who was filled with excitement after the bout stated that the victory was another platform for him to still continue working hard to be in top shape for the international title contest coming up later in the year. “I am happy for the victory. My opponent came hard at the beginning of the fight, but based on my experience I was able to knock him out early. My major target is to continue striving hard and win more boxing bouts to be able to excel in an international boxing bout. I am focused to earn a global boxing title soon. Boxing is my passion and I will not relent to get better,” he said. The championship sanctioned by the Nigeria Boxing Board controlled by Dr Rafiu Ladipo also witnessed a large number of spectators and Nigeria boxers including Nigeria boxing Star Olajide Fijabi who defeated his opponent Tope Berinja in a  keenly contested eight-round national lightweight bout.
Speaking after the event NBBC president, Dr Rafiu Ladioo said that the body decided to organise the boxing Championship to discover more talents and also keep the already existing stars in competitive spirit. “The Boxing Championship was a success. So many upcoming Stars were discovered. Most of the fight was tough because the upcoming boxer wants to prove a point that they are also good. With this event, a large number of Boxers will be selected and monitored by the board. We are also going to Ibadan and other parts of the country to organise this contest. The board thank the owner of YUCATEC Arene for giving NBBC free space to host the event,” he said .