Signs three bills into law Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has sworn in Mr. Ope George and Dr. Oluwarotimi Fashola as Special Advisers on Public-Private Partnerships and Agriculture (Rice Mill Initiative) respectively. Sanwo-Olu, who swore in the two advisers during the weekly State Executive Council meeting at the Executive Chamber in Lagos House, Ikeja, yesterday, also signed three bills into law. In a statement, the three bills were: law regulating the real estate transactions; law to provide for the registration of co-operative societies  and law to regulate ownership, licensing and sales of pets and to prohibit and restrict people from having in custody dangerous animals in public places. The governor said George and Fashola would add value to the system and wish them the very best in their new assignments.
Besides, he said the new bills would strengthen government and citizens’ engagement and relationships, and for residents of the state to continue to live in an atmosphere where the rule of law is enshrined for people and to know what is expected of them. Sanwo-Olu commended the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa and the state lawmakers for passing the bills into law.  He said the state government would “continue to ensure that citizens are happy and further deepened trust in government.” He said the law to regulate the real estate transactions in Lagos State would help to protect the citizens and the unsuspecting Lagosians who fall prey to many real estate professionals, adding that the law will also help players in the real estate sector to know what is expected of them and for government to be able to track who is doing what in the sector. Also, he said the law to provide for the registration of co-operative societies in Lagos State would make it easy to regulate the operations of thousands of co-operative societies in the state for harmonious co-operation. Sanwo-Olu also noted that the law regulating the ownership, licensing and sales of pets, prohibiting and restricting people from having in custody dangerous animals in public places, would further strengthen all the deliverables in the Ministry of Agriculture, especially issues that have to do with pets and animals. 