• To set up regional maritime safety, security research centre
The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has renewed its memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the World Maritime University (WMU), Sweden, to enhance capacity development and growth of the Nigerian maritime sector. Speaking after the virtual signing of the MoU, the Director-General, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, noted that there is no substitute to education, adding that the collaboration with WMU is to advance maritime interests. He said the move is also to address the changing needs of the maritime sector based on sustainable capacity development, especially as education, training and capacity building play a major role in developing shipping in any nation. Jamoh disclosed that NIMASA is at an advanced stage in setting up a Regional Maritime Safety and Security Research Center to enhance research works. According to him, the centre, which aims at excellence in research, will take care of capacity development in 25 African countries, with more collaboration and cooperation between the agency and other countries. He said graduates from the WMU who are in the employ of NIMASA will serve as researchers and resource persons, sharing knowledge and hopefully developing a research-based sustainable framework to provide a solution to issues of insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea. On her part, the President of the WMU, Dr. Cleopatra Doumbia-Henry, acknowledged that NIMASA is playing a leading role in developing capacity for the maritime industry in the Gulf of Guinea region. She commended Nigerian students who have passed through the university as she welcomed the agreement. Doumbia-Henry added that the initiative also supports the WMU’s commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Nigeria leads, others follow. WMU is delighted to be associated with NIMASA and its work, which extends beyond national boundaries and has a significant effect on the whole region. We are also pleased to have such a successful and warm relationship with NIMASA and its staff – it is a perfect example of international cooperation for sustainable growth,” she stated. 