The Environmental Science Hygiene (ESH) Ltd, Nigeria, a subsidiary of Environmental Science Hygiene, United Kingdom, has launched its Palm Tree Hygiene foaming hand sanitiser. The launch coincided with the commissioning of ESH’s state-of-the-art factory in Ikeja, Lagos. The uniqueness of the sanitiser comes from the alcohol extraction process, sourced naturally and distilled from the sap of the palm tree, without damage to the tree and no harmful on the environment. The Chief Executive Officer, ESH Ltd. Nigeria, Sam Awolesi, said the initiative was as a result of years of consistent research. “We are proud to announce the launch of the world’s first foaming hand sanitiser, made from all-natural ingredients. When we started this experiment, we were equipped with industry knowledge and insights and we found that 80 per cent of customers, whether individuals or organisations prefer foaming as opposed to gel or liquid sanitisers,” he said. The Managing Director of the company, Mrs. Sola Adebowale, said: “We are extremely honored to announce such a unique product. At the onset of COVID-19, we saw the need for an all-natural sanitiser that is effective in protecting humans, while also being environmentally sustainable.” The Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Development Goals and Investment, Mrs. Solape Hammond, said: “It is exciting to see another business in Nigeria that is passionate about proliferating and promoting sustainable and environmentally friendly products. With the launch of the product and the commissioning of the factory, this will bring in new jobs, while increasing the economic viability of our country.” The company revealed its new factory was built with the intent to support small and medium businesses in the country by giving them access to the factory to manufacture their products. The product also moisturises and gives off a coconut scent and decongest nasal pathways. The premium sanitiser, which has been proven to be effective in combating zoonotic germs, like viruses, parasites, and fungi is first certified in the UK under European standards EN1276 and later by NAFDAC in Nigeria.
[ad