Implications of Nigeria’s debt burden are much more severe than official justifications would aim to palm off from notoriety. Indeed, the debt to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio paints a less gloomy picture and often the most convenient rationale. But an administration that continues to binge on borrowings year-on-year for skewed development of the country, and keeps pushing debt servicing ratio to rival revenue projection, offers an unsustainable model and a disservice to the future of all.
   
The recently released statement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the conclusion of its 2021 Article IV Consultation with Nigeria about the state of Nigeria’s debt burden is unsettling. The statement indicated that the debt servicing-to-revenue ratio for Nigeria may reach 92 per cent in 2022. Earlier, Agusto & Co, a prominent Pan-African Credit Rating Agency had put the figure at 90 per cent. These are indications of bad times ahead in the management of the Nigerian economy. Earlier, in 2021, the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, at an Annual National Tax Dialogue held virtually, had identified debt servicing as Nigeria’s greatest risk.
   
These largely pessimistic postulations indicate that the future does not portend much for the Nigerian economy as a result of the growing public debt burden. While the Buhari administration has seemingly remained adamant in its craze for borrowings, the implications are becoming quite clear even to the ardent supporters of the administration. By the IMF estimate, it simply implies that for every N100 projected as revenue in 2022, a whopping N92 will be set aside to settle interest payments on already incurred debt, leaving a paltry N8 to run the bureaucracy of government for the entire year. This dire situation thus implies that more borrowing may have to result in order to maintain the current pattern of expenditure. And that is an awful situation for the country!  How much has been borrowed specifically to challenges of erosion, oil pollution and other problems largely prevalent in the South, under the Buhari administration, apart from meagre provisions under the Ecological Funds? It should be recalled that under this administration, debts have even been incurred to finance projects in Niger Republic while many parts of Nigeria are yet to feel any impact of the huge borrowings. This is sacrilegious and the Buhari administration has a lot of explanations to offer on why inequity has exacerbated under its watch. 