The boys have been separated from the men, and for every Camerounian football fan, the real battle in the 33rd Africa Cup of Nations begins today.
 
For some football analysts, the hosts, Indomitable Lions, have not been really tested in this tournament. Apart from their opening group match against the Stallions of Burkina Faso, which Cameroun won 1-0, all other matches have not stretched them as much, compared to the tough games played by the Pharaohs of Egypt.
   
The Egyptians started the campaign on a losing note on January 11, when they fell 0-1 to the Super Eagles of Nigeria in Garoua.
Rather than allow the defeat to affect them, they marched on, beating one of the pre-tournament favourites, Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire in a penalty shootout on their way to the quarterfinals. That was not all. The Pharaohs were pitted against their North African brothers, Morocco, another football giant, in the quarterfinals. They came from behind to win 2-1.
 
As the second semifinal closes in, fear of a possible defeat stare many Camerounian fans. In every part of the city, the discussion is centred on the Egyptian magic man, Mohammed Salah. 
 
Five years ago, Cameroun and Egypt were the two last teams standing in the Africa Cup of Nations hosted by Gabon. Though the Pharaohs were tipped as favourites to win the title, it was the Indomitable Lions of Cameroun that smiled home with the trophy.
 
While the entire Cameroun is banking on Garoua-born centre forward and team captain, Vincent Aboubakar, to do the damage against the Pharaohs, Egyptians are looking up to their Liverpool striker, Mohammed Salah, to live up to his role as one of the most influential footballers of his generation.
 
Salah, on Monday, had declared in an interview with The Guardian that they won’t seek vengeance against Cameroun, but will use this semifinal to prove to their fans and the entire world that the Pharaohs still had what was needed to be African champions.
   
Egypt is aiming to score early goals to unsettle the hosts this evening and, according to Coach Carlos Quiroz, the Pharaohs will approach today’s semifinals as if it is a World Cup final. 