The Special Adviser to former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George, Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, has said that the Lagos State PDP elders are now reconciled and working in lockstep. Shodipe-Dosunmu, who stated this while delivering a lecture titled: “Leadership and the Enemies Within,” at a forum organised by PDP Lagos Youth Democratic League in Lagos, at the weekend, said: “Let me first state firmly that the Lagos State PDP elders are now reconciled, working in lockstep unity. They are now re-asserting the bond, the friendship and the amity of the good old days. They are now fully united, strengthened in will and wisdom to confront the ruling party. “There is no  division. There are no more feuds. Peace is now in our midst.” Governor Seyi Makinde worked seriously and graciously for the peace we are now enjoying. He stated that Chief Bode George, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu, Chief Mrs. Aduke Maina, Senator Kofo Bucknor Akerele, Chief Mrs. Onikepo Oshodi, Dr Remi Akitoye and many other leaders also contributed to the new dawn of peace. He said the party’s concern about leadership today is borne out of the petty virulence of a reckless minority who are unwilling to abide with the peaceful process and are determined to bring the party back to the destructive days and it is no longer acceptable. “In recent times there has been a spate of vicious, cruel and vindictive vendetta waged against Chief Olabode George and Governor Seyi Makinde by some ill-masked, untidily veiled mercenaries fulfilling the purpose of the other side. “Something is terribly wrong when a few chest-beating pseudo democrats within the fold of Lagos PDP are now the hired hands of the ruling party. They churn out unbelievable, cheap manufactured fables, insinuating very horrible, unsubstantiated stories in twisted libelous license against our leaders. “This is sad. This is sickening. And it is not right. And it is not fair. And it is ungodly. Those who will betray their party for a mess of porridge have disrobed themselves in the market place. They are equally declaring that everything can be negotiated for personal gains. “Indeed, there is a certain muddled odiousness about these agents of destabilization  and ruin who insist on bringing the roof down when the price is right. They say hosanna in the morning and shout crucify him in the darkness of the night.” He said the current campaign of enmity against the Atona Odua and Governor Seyi Makinde by well known perennial time-servers is all about envy and the complex of the diminished man. “It is about a virulent, aimless malignity encouraged by a distorted, scarred, verminous identity. But more importantly, the campaign of blackmail is also about money. There is no doubt about it. “The rabble rousers want to be placated yet again by easy money. They got away with in the recent past. They have come again with the same old song. We will not dance to the tune of cheap, dirty blackmail. Are you going to dance to that? No!.”