Yoruba tradition, culture can help fight insecurity, says Ooni
Gunmen have reportedly kidnapped a former Chairman of Ilejemeje Council of Ekiti State, Bamgboye Adegoroye and four others. Chairman of Ifesowapo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Kayode Akerele, who disclosed this, yesterday, in Ado Ekiti, said Adegoroye was driving with another occupant in his car, when the abductors struck along the Isan-Iludun road on Monday evening. Akerele said they were abducted and taken to an unknown destination about 7:30p.m. along the route, adding: “We learnt that Adegoroye and one other occupant of his car were driving along the route when the gunmen shot at his car from the bush. “They had to stop, because the gunshot hit their car and it was at that spot that they were abducted and we have not heard whether the family had been contacted.” In another development, Chairman of Ero Local Council Development Area (LCDAs), Akin Alebiosu, said three charcoal burners were also kidnapped at Ikun-Ekiti around 6:30p.m. on the same day. Alebiosu revealed that the leader of the charcoal burners, who was identified as Olu, an indigene of Ikun-Ekiti and other victims were at the Ero River basin for their business when the incident occurred. Alebiosu and Akerele appealed to the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Babatunde Mobayo, to beef up security on Ayede-Isan-Iludun-Ikun axis, saying the route is gradually becoming a safe haven for criminals in recent times. When contacted, Commandant of Amotekun Corps in Ekiti, Brig.Gen Joe Akomolafe, said the outfit was working with other security agencies to rescue the victims. Akomolafe said the Moba, Ilejemeje and Oye councils of Ekiti were becoming a safe haven for abductors, because the councils bordered Ekiti with Kwara and Kogi states. “My men and other security agencies are combing the forests to rescue the victims. We are after them and we won’t rest until the victims are rescued. “That axis seems to be unsafe because of our boundaries with Kogi and Kwara states, so, immediately the kidnappers seize their victims, within 15 minutes, they would have driven out of Ekiti to very hilly and difficult terrains to navigate.” “Another crisis we face is the fact that the kidnappers have informants among the locals, who gave them information about our movement. But whatever happens, we are mapping out strategies to checkmate their activities in the areas,” he said. MEANWHILE, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, yesterday, said Yoruba tradition and culture are potent tools for combating insecurity if they are appropriately harnessed. The monarch made this known while applauding the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba Land, Gani Adams, and members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) for their role in securing the Southwest region. According to him, “This is made possible because OPC of the Adams extraction has always placed premium on the celebration of Yoruba tradition and culture since it was formed.” He spoke during the 2022 edition of Oodua festival, held at Palace Square, Ile Ife, Osun State. The monarch noted that security challenges in the region could have been worse “but for the intervention of the OPC and its relentless efforts in ensuring the safety of people in the Southwest.” According to him, “The OPC, under the leadership of Adams, has made remarkable impact in complementing the efforts of the country’s security outfits in reducing security challenges across the region. I also enjoin other prominent Yoruba sons and daughters to emulate the commitment of Adams in the promotion of Yoruba culture and tradition across the country. “There is need to turn the yearly Oodua festival into a big festival in Ile Ife. The palace would support the Olokun Festival Foundation (OFF) in making subsequent editions major festivals.” In his remarks, Adams urged all traditional rulers in Yoruba land to start celebrating Oodua festival in their respective towns and communities, maintaining that the event remains the only one that reflects the identity of the Yoruba race.