Peculiar Agboya, a member of the winning South-South women team, has emerged the Most Valuable Player at the just concluded Third PwC National U-17 Cricket Championship at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja. She accumulated 33.422 points average in bowling and batting in the four matches that gave the women championship for her team. Agboya had 16 wickets in four innings with an economy of 1.88 and was the third on the batting log with 77 runs behind last edition’s star Lucky Piety and Igbinedion Victory, who had 112 runs and 80 runs respectively. The 15-year-old was player of the match in the first group game against North East, claiming seven wickets. She earned same award in the second game against North West, scoring an individual run of 53 runs in 51 balls faced, as well as three wickets. Agboya, who was introduced to the game two years ago, said she hopes to be part of the inaugural U-19 girls’ cricket team. “I am happy with the awards, but I am happier that all the trainings I have received so far is coming to bare in this tournament. “I told myself during the trials (ahead of the tournament) that I don’t just want to make the team and add to the numbers but to contribute my part to the team’s success. “I also hope to make the inaugural Under 19 female national team,’’ she added. Agboya’s coach, Peter Esewi, lauded the player’s contribution to the team and predicted she would become a super star in the nearest future. She is ready to learn and it is the same for all my players, but Peculiar stands out. She is very curious and not afraid to try something out. Her bowling and batting ability is top notch and when she bowls, her flight of ball delivery is perfect. She will no doubt play in the national team and I see her going places n the nearest future,’’ Esewi added. The South South team is currently topping Group A after two victories, which have qualified them for semifinals. In the semifinals scheduled for Saturday, they will meet the runners up in Group B, which has North Central, South East and South West. The team are defending champions of the tournament, which will end on Sunday.