The National reconciliation team of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has affirmed Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje as leader of the party structure in Kano. In a letter released Monday night, signed by Abdullahi Y. Gashua, the Chief of staff to the National Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Committee of APC, Mai Mala Buni, Governor Ganduje is appointed to head a six-member National/state Joint Supervisory Committee that will decide the formation of the new party structure in the state. Other members of the committee include former Governor and Senator representing Kano central, Mal. Ibrahim Shekarau, Governor of Zamfara state Bello Muhammad Matawalle, former speaker house of representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Senator Abba Ali while the representatives of the headquarters. The arrangement was part of the new template for the harmonization of the party structure developed by the party headquarters to resolve the factional crisis crippling the party in Kano. According to the new template, a bottom-top caucus will be constituted at each local government area with members including serving senator; serving member of houses of representatives and state assembly; serving council chairman and deputy; Commissioner; special advisers and minister; and one woman to be nominated by the Governor in consultation with senator Shekarau. The National/ State Joint Supervisory Committee has seven days to rectify new wards and local governments’ party structure that would be submitted to them by the local governments’ caucus before submitting to the National headquarters for validation. Meanwhile, the Shekarau loyalist group of G-7 has disowned the new template for harmonization of the party structure in the state. Jointly signed by Senator Shekarau, Senator representing Kano North, Barau Jibril, House of Representatives, Members representing (D/Tofa, Rimin Gado/Tofa) Tijjani Jobe; (Gezawa/Gabasawa) Nasiru Abduwa; (Karaye/Rogo) Barr. Haruna Dederi; (Kano municipal) Sha’aban Sharada; and Alh. Shehu Dalhatu, (Chairman, Buhari Support. Group). In the statement released to journalists early Tuesday, the G-7 did not only reject the position of the Mai Mala Buni’s new template but regretted that the party was finally submitted to the governor. “Regrettably however, your said template never contained the proposals and or, submissions put forward by both sides, nor even made specific reference to them,” the group said. “Furthermore, to our utter dismay and disenchantment, the letter had even gone viral in the social media emanating from Kano state government circles even before reaching us, mischievously paraded as conclusive evidence that the party would be surrendered to the HE Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje faction. “In the circumstances, therefore, we are constrained to notify you sir, that the entirety of the content of your letter is totally unacceptable to us”.