Ebun Comets proprietor, Ayo Bakare, has described the just-concluded Crown Elite Basketball Championship as one of the best things to happen to Nigerian basketball in recent times, saying the competition has taught many young men and women the need to work hard for success in sports. Rivers Hoopers beat UNILAG to win the Elite Crown Basketball Championship in Lagos…at the weekend  He said: “I think the most important thing that this organisation has been able to do for basketball is encouraging these young men that there’s a need to strive in the game and give them a platform to be able to showcase their talents and play. “Many of them don’t have the opportunity to play for a very long time and to actually provide an environment for them to enjoy top-level competition, for me, these are the valuables and huge contributions that they have done and will continue to do for years to come. “This year is better than the last, the event is better organised, competitions are at a higher level and it is really helping the players to strive to achieve something.” He said the prize money, N1.5 million for champions, is good, adding, however, “my focus is the environment they are providing for these men. Also, there is one important thing, which is, when Onuche and Edem come around and these young players see then former Union Bank stars and what they have become today, it sends a message to these youngsters. “The impact it brings that they too can rise out of this ashes and become like these people whether they travel abroad or not; that these people made a success of their lives and basketball was the platform, basketball was the key that opened the doors. They all want to be like Edem and Onuche.” Rivers Hoopers won the title by beating UNILAG 79 to 71 in a tightly contested final game, while Lagos Legends defeated Lagos Islanders 75 to 40 to win the bronze medal. Team Sahara won the women All Star game against Team Oceanic by 28 to 24, while Subair Mistura of MFM won the N5, 000 prize from the free throw contest. Lagos Legend’s David Edward took the three points prize with nine points, Raptors’ Seun Coker won the Slam and Dunk contest by 22 points, his teammate, Offia Abel won the free throw contest, while Imole Olorunfemi of Warriors won the free throw contest. 