Affirms its commitment to maternal, child health and access to high-quality healthcare EHA Clinics announces the launch of IONA® Care, a non-invasive prenatal test (NIPT) service offering for pregnant women which estimates the risk of a fetus having Down’s syndrome (T21), Edwards’ syndrome (T18) and Patau’s Syndrome (T13) from as early as 10 weeks. The IONA® test is an advanced screening test carried out on a small blood sample taken from the mother’s arm with no risk of miscarriage. A non-invasive prenatal test (NIPT) is an advanced screening test using DNA in the mother’s blood to estimate the risk of a fetus having Down’s syndrome, Edwards’ syndrome, and Patau’s syndrome. Traditional screening offered during the first trimester of pregnancy is currently called the Combined Test. This is an ultrasound scan to measure the nuchal translucency (NT), combined with a blood test. This is less accurate than NIPT, detecting about 85% of babies with Down’s syndrome. The IONA® test, however, has a higher detection rate than the Combined Test. In response to the launch, Dr. Anthonia Hananiya, MD, FAAP, Chief Medical Officer, EHA Clinics says, “As we have reiterated in the past, EHA Clinics focuses on providing technology-enabled primary and secondary healthcare services and programs that target all segments of the population. As such, we are excited to launch this innovative top-of-the-line service offering. The IONA® test provides a competitive high-quality offering due to the fast turnaround time, enabling some results to be turned around in as fast as 8 to 10 days.” “We are also open to partnerships with leading healthcare service providers in the nation. This will address the growing demand for access to affordable, high-quality healthcare in the country.” She further commented. EHA Clinics is a world-class integrated health care service provider with locations in Kano, and Abuja FCT, Nigeria that is focused on improving healthcare delivery in Nigeria. More information about EHA Clinics can be found at www.eha.ng. 