Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has applauded the state Police Command over the successes recorded in its operations, especially during the yuletide season. Uzodimma gave the commendation at the Command Headquarters in Owerri, yesterday, while inspecting items recently recovered from suspected armed robbers and kidnappers by the Anti-kidnapping Unit of the Command. Prominent among the items were human skulls, various Biafran currencies and locally made explosive devices. The governor, who reiterated his commitment to riding the state of all forms of crime and criminality, pledged that his administration would continue to support the police in its operations to guarantee safety of lives and property. His words: “It is important that I commend you for works well done and to do things that will boost your morale to continue to do well. Today, to the glory of God, you have been able to bring the incidents of kidnapping to the barest minimum. So, I want to assure you of our continued support and encouragement.” Earlier in his speech, the state Police Commissioner, CP Rabiu Hussaini, appreciated Uzodimma for his advice and logistics support, which he said “assisted the Command tremendously in launching vigorous and aggressive attacks on terror groups.” He said the support led to the decimation of many terrorists’ camps in the state, resulting in the relative peace and tranquility the state was enjoying. Hussaini stated that in spite of the Command’s Anti-kidnapping Unit’s constraints, “between the months of January 2021 and January 2022, the unit has arrested a total of 105 kidnappers/armed robbers, 45 terrorists and has recovered 27 vehicles of different makes and assorted caliber of arms and ammunition.” The CP, who also lamented the deplorable condition of roads leading to the Unit’s office, lack of potable water and insufficient accommodation for officers of the Command, appealed to Uzodimma to assist in addressing the challenges. Speaking also, the head of the Anti-kidnapping Unit, AS Oladimeji Odeyeyiwa, said his men would continue to strive to live up to expectations, while calling for continued support and cooperation of the members of the public. Other items recovered and exhibited were one GPMG riffle, 12 AK47 riffles, four assault riffles, 18 pump action guns, five locally made GPMG riffles, eight double barrel guns, 13 cut to size locally made pistols, 180 rounds of live AK47 ammunition, 60 rounds of live assault ammunition, 82 rounds of live cartridges, 14 locally made hand grenade explosives and 15 locally made improvise explosives. Also recovered were various denominations of Biafran currencies, 12 Biafran lags, 17 Biafran berets, 16 pairs of Biafran uniforms, five Biafran masquerade costumes, various brands of black charms, 16 pairs of military uniforms, eight police base sets, six walkie-talkies and various plate numbers of vehicles and motorcycles.