As the countdown to the 2023 governorship election in Lagos State gets intense, there is renewed optimism in the camp of the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as to the possibility of breaking the 23-year-old grip of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). But this would only be achievable if the party’s stakeholders put their house in order and get their strategy right.
 
One of the major factors, which has always caused PDP’s woeful performance and defeat in previous governorship elections from 1999 to 2019 is internal wrangling. The best chances opened to the PDP to oust the ruling party in 2007 and 2015. In 2007, the major opposition party got federal backing and massive funding from former President Olusegun Obasanjo when it presented former envoy to Ghana, Senator Musiliu Obaniko as its governorship candidate.
 
The PDP would have capitalised on the internal crisis in the ruling Action Congress (AC), now APC, when about 11 commissioners and the then Deputy Governor, Mr. Femi Pedro, revolted against Tinubu on the ground that the National Leader allegedly imposed his anointed candidate, Babatunde Fashola on others. But Fashola, who is currently Minister of Works and Housing, eventually defeated Obanikoro in the 2007 governorship race with 599,300 votes to 383, 956 votes.
 
Political observers believed that the results would have been different if all stakeholders in the PDP had united to support Obanikoro.  Reviewing the election outcomes over the years, some observers have continued to say that no serious governorship elections has ever taken place in Lagos since 1999 except the one fought, won and lost to manipulations and lack of internal cohesion among the opposition parties, especially PDP.
 
The recent defection of Dr. Abdulazeez Adediran, the convener of Lagos4Lagos Movement, a splinter group in APC to the PDP, was witnessed and backed by 10 PDP governors, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, erstwhile Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, incumbent National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, along with other notable members of the party, has, however, engendered renewed optimism within the rank of party faithful that the narrative may change in 2023.
 
Specifically, political observers have said that the recent show of solidarity across the country among PDP leaders and the fanfare created to receive Adediran in Lagos portends some seriousness on the part of the party and a strong indication of intent to win the governorship in Lagos come 2023. “The fanfare and determination displayed by PDP big wigs, including those obviously bitter and those playing the normal politics, indicated how serious PDP may be in wresting power from APC in Lagos.” Adediran As Symbol Of Unity Ahead 2023
CONTRARY to the strategy the managers of Obanikoro and Agbaje adopted in 2007 and 2015, that the duo was brought into the party by some elements to take the governorship ticket without necessarily giving consideration to the interest of those that have worked assiduously to build the party, Adediran aka Jandor, came with the understanding that he cannot perpetuate what he kicked against in his former party. Rather, he stated that he was ready to submit to a level playing ground in a free, fair and credible governorship primary.
 
Jandor is also said to be going around, meeting with all necessary stakeholders in the PDP to preach unity. As a matter of fact, some members of the PDP have named him “the Apostle of Peace” in Lagos PDP. The Guardian gathered that Adediran has met with almost everyone who matters in Lagos PDP and across the country to strengthen the bond of unity in the party ahead of 2023.  Those who spoke with The Guardian in separate telephone conversations include a former PDP state chairman, Navy Captain Tunji Shelle; Jimi Agbaje; a chieftain of the party, Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse and former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George.  There is, however, a caveat to the nature of support Lagos PDP will get this time. The question pundits are asking is the significant impact the PDP governors could make in Lagos 2023 governorship election by planting Jandor or whoever as governor; what two former presidents, Obasanjo and Jonathan failed to achieve?
 
The PDP governors behind the development are Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Nyesom Wike (River); Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom); Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia); Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu); and Duoye Diri (Bayelsa).  Speaking at the official defection of Jandor, Makinde said the event signalled the beginning of a new dawn for the PDP in Lagos State. According to the governor, the South-West PDP is now ready to lead the charge to rescue the zone and the country from the hands of the APC, which promised too much but did so little to justify the trust Nigerians had in it. In his response shortly after being presented with the PDP membership card by the chairman of the party in Ojoo Local Council and the chairman of the Lagos State PDP Caretaker Committee, Julius Akinsola, Adediran said he and his followers were joining the PDP to add value to the party. 
 
Adediran, who stated that he drew inspiration from Governor Makinde, who took on a task that seemed unachievable and came out victorious in the 2019 governorship election in Oyo State, noted that he and his followers would put their numerical strength to test in Lagos. 