 Jaji Abolore during his visit to the headquarters of Martell Cognac in Paris, France. Jaji Abolore, the founder and CEO of Booth Group, has vowed to give better experiences to clients this year and further pilot the establishment to greater heights after visiting the Paris home of Martell, the highly revered French cognac brand. Sharing several pictures of his visit to the factory where the distinctly unique Martell Cognac is brewed, Abolore proudly posted about his Martell Cognac experience on his official Instagram page. According to Abolore, his trip to the iconic home of Martell has enamoured him to rejig the game as far as premium nightlife experience is concerned. Recall that top Nigerian singer Davido also visited Martell’s headquarters in Paris a few days ago and, like Jaji Abolore did, posted pictures of his visit. Abolore is the operator of the famous Johannesburg-based Booth Night Club. The Nigerian, whose Booth Group includes Booth Night Club, Booth Liquor Store and Room 130, has established himself as one to be reckoned with in the nightlife and hospitality business in the country and Africa. The astute businessman is fast becoming an entertainment promoter as he has creatively infused promotion into his line as an all-round package that the industry entails. The entrepreneur’s success is not accidental. In fact, nothing good happens by chance. The graduate of the University of Ibadan has been deliberate about his journey to success, which has been key to maintaining what he has built and keeps consolidating. Abolore has been able to bring to bear his 30-year managerial experience, which began in Nigeria as the managing director of Jars Nigeria Enterprises, a company that specializes in the import and export of wine and beverages. The experience sustained him when he founded Highland Movers, a firm in Gauteng, South Africa, with the company also specializing in import and export, transportation and storage, as well as owning a beauty salon. The adventure helped Abolore to drive the Booth Group to its present enviable height, even in the face of the adverse, crushing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the industry in 2020 and 2021. However, in an outlook for the current year, the Lagos-raised investor is optimistic that exciting times await him and the Booth Group. “We have planned a whole year on how to open new frontiers for the Booth Group. Our fans and clients can look forward to a scintillating 2022. We will raise our game and reward them with big surprises,”Jaji Abolore told reporters in a recent interview. 