Just as the country was grappling with how to give some meaning to the rude awakening occasioned by cruel, premeditated murder of five-year-old Hanifa by her teacher/minder in Kano,  news broke of yet another killing of  12-year-old Zuwaira, a schoolgirl also in Kano in circumstances not dissimilar to those of Hanifa’s. Hanifa, the petite and dainty girl next door was the only child of her parents who had gone ahead, unmindful of their daughter’s death to raise and pay the ransom demanded by her killer shortly before her mutilated body was found days later. This pathetic case should be deeply troubling to all as it is sadly emblematic of a gradual, almost systemic malaise now confronting us as a country. Whilst the angst generated by the murder of the young girls had yet abated, the news circuit was again abuzz with yet another horrific beheading of a 19-year-old young woman in Abeokuta by four teenagers, each 17 years of age and one of whom was allegedly her “boyfriend”. They confessed to have conspired to kill her because the native doctor requested for her severed head as a material for money-making rituals. It was also reported in Ogun State how a traditional ruler and his associates were literally roasted to death in his car in a pathetic act of involuntary cremation. There are regular and unabating reports of similar acts of extra judicial killings in Niger, Sokoto, Zamfara and Kaduna states apart from those from the customary epicentres of terrorism, kidnapping and sundry criminalities in the North East. To be sure, not since the civil war days have we witnessed such unimaginable monstrosity on this huge scale in this country. If we factor in the unspeakable bloodlettings resulting from seemingly  unabating acts of banditry, kidnapping, terrorism and sundry spectacles of criminality, one could very easily surmise that Nigeria, in recorded history,  has never had it so bad in terms of the needless loss of lives she had suffered in the recent past. Whilst one would genuinely concede that there is enough blame to go round practically all facets of society for these acts of depravity, the  inescapable truth and reality is that leadership at the political, social, religious and traditional levels ought to take a hefty percentage of the blame for the rot.
The mindless acquisition of wealth by any means and at whatever cost is now the hallowed object of veneration in the society. The mode of acquisition does not seem to matter anymore. Cutting corners to attain  wealth, relevance, status and importance is the new normal. The near total abdication of parental responsibility,  poor upbringing, lax moral standards, peer pressure, broken school system  as well as the epidemic of broken homes are chief culprits here. What better representation of these unedifying attributes is the get rich recourse often referred to as yahoo-yahoo which truth be told has found manifestations in several facets of the society even those previously not thought possible.  As the famous scripture posits – Let him who is guiltless amongst you cast the first stone. As sociologists and anthropologists  will aver, there is a symbiotic relationship between the origin, organisation, institutions, development and functioning of society as a self-contained organic unit and the behaviour, culture, orientation, and belief systems of people in the society. These acts of moral  turpitude and depravities represent a potent negation and repudiation of the values we use to hold dear in times gone by. Our youth population suffer extravagant distress and disabilities not only from the poverty of avenues for critical thinking and positive engagements of the mind but also from want of direction, leadership, mentorship and quality orientation. It beggars belief that students in our  primary and secondary schools are now active members of clans and cult groups. The army of unemployed youths will soon enough turn themselves over as thugs and brigands in the hands of politicians in the approaching season of political fiesta. The situation is made even worse by the naked exhibition of conspicuous consumption rooted in ill-gotten acquisitions by the political elite. Some of our religious elite have regrettably fared no better as regards their obsessive and vulgar display of sumptuous luxury in the midst of penurious insufficiencies of the most toxic variety amongst the followers. 
 
We must also fix our gaze on the agonisingly slow criminal  justice delivery and administration system. It is in need of critical life-changing surgery for how can we ever find justification for the case of a notorious kidnap kingpin whose trial in the Law court has dragged on almost forever. Surely, developments such as these tend to provide encouragement to those vocationally prone to homicidal tendencies that they might just be able to delay the wheels of justice by an admixture of subterfuge and the technical proficiency of their intercessors. Ultimately, leadership at all levels, political, social, traditional and religious must rise to the occasion by living up to their responsibility in stemming the bourgeoning incidence and tide  of unlawful killings across the country ostensibly  for predetermined objects of material, sectarian, economic and political gratifications. We need a revamped value system and  orientation as we may lose the soul and essence of the country if we do not act decisively now. It is hoped that the souls of the hapless victims of the killings will be reposed by bringing the perpetrators to account for their deeds.
• Adenekan, a Lawyer,  wrote from Lagos. 