• Gov’s choice, Umo Eno, promises to be servant leader Ahead of governorship election in Akwa Ibom State, former National Vice Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South South, Chief Edet Nkprubre, has called on the electorate not to misunderstand the preferred aspirant of the state Governor, Emmanuel Udom, as a consensus candidate of the party. He also urged the governor, who he described as the father and the leader of the PDP in the state, to ensure a level playing field for all aspirants in the race to contest in the primaries rather than the public endorsement of one. Nkprubre said though the governor has his reserved right to support whosoever he likes, his opinion and decision should not stop other aspirants from contesting in the party primaries. He described the governor’s presentation of his preferred aspirant, Pastor Umo Eno, as a divine or God revelation to him as rather strange and disturbing and maintained that politics should not be  played that way. He called on Udom not to mix politics with religion, saying that the people would not accept the story behind his endorsement if based on religion. Nkprubre called on the electorate to vote for mature, compassionate, experienced, total Akwa Ibom man, who knows the pains and feelings of every tribe in the state. He asked the people not to vote for a “do-or-die politician” who lived all his life in politics. He said: “Udom has his right to support whosoever he likes but should not bring  religion  into politics because politics is not played that way . I hope Akwa Ibom people are not being scammed. Obong Attah endorsed his son-in-law in 2006 but things turned around, Akpabio won the party primaries. Governor Udom has his own reserved right but will the people of the state accept it? It is left for him to sell that candidate, if the candidate is unsellable, he will not go anywhere, if sellable he will go far.” MEANWHILE, the governor’s preferred aspirant, Umo Eno, has received further boost as the Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, has thrown his full weight behind his aspiration. This took place at the formal presentation of Eno, who is the Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, to the Deputy Governor, Mr. Moses Ekpo at his Government House lodge, Uyo by the Director General of the Campaign Organisation alongside the national leadership of the Maintain Peace Movement. Presenting the gubernatorial hopeful to the deputy governor, a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state and one-time Nigeria’s Ambassador to Russia, Chief Assam Assam, SAN, said Eno had the pedigree needed to sustain the legacies of the Udom Emmanuel administration. He described him as an accomplished gentleman that successfully managed private outfits before engaging in public service and said Akwa Ibom State stands to benefit from his wealth of experience if supported. The deputy governor advised those who may have preferred to be chosen ahead of Eno to bury their grievances and join the peace movement for the betterment of the State. “He is efficient, very efficient, he is a team leader in the Completion Agenda.” “He’s business oriented and he knows how to relate with business men, and I see his unveiling as the finger of God”. “I bless you, I ask God to protect you. The God you serve will guide you and would direct you. Go in peace and continue to serve the Lord,” Mr. Ekpo prayed.