Exactly 23 years ago, precisely in January 1999, uneasy quietude pervaded the nation’s polity: Chief Olusegun Obasanjo was elected as the Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
  
There was disquiet in the polity, as Obasanjo’s emergence contradicted general anticipation that, as the leader of the G34, which midwifed the formation of PDP, the second republic Vice President, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, should have become the party’s Presidential standard bearer.
   
Some PDP leaders from Southeast, including former Special Adviser to former President Shehu Shagari, Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, expected Ekwueme to instigate a revolt within the party against the perceived imposition of Obasanjo by the military high command.
    
Others blamed Ekwueme’s loss of PDP Presidential ticket on the former Governor of old Anambra State, Chief Jim Ifeanyichukwu Nwobodo, alleging that he carried over old antagonism between him and the former Vice President from their days in the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) and Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP).  Consolation ticket
However, barely two weeks after Ekwueme and by extension Igbo, lost the PDP ticket, the national convention of All Peoples Party (APP) in Kaduna, threw up the first governor of old Abia State, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, as standard bearer. It was much like a consolation prize, because a former Igbo Presidential aspirant, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, commended APP for looking towards the Southeast so that Nigerians could choose between two Presidential candidates from the South.
 
But, in a space of three days, the military high command in charge of the transition programme indicated that instead of leaving the contest open to the entire South, candidates for the Presidential poll are expected from any of the six states in Southwest geopolitical zone.
 
Following the lead, it was resolved that APP, which had won nine states across the country, should go into political understanding (loose merger) with Alliance for Democracy (AD), which returned all the six governors of the six Southwest states of Ekiti, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Oyo.  Another merger
AFTER relinquishing the APP Presidential ticket in 1999, 11 years later, Onu was elected the national chairman of ANPP, that is eight years after the party changed its name from APP to All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) to accommodate members of the United Nigeria Democratic Party (UNDP) with which it merged.
   
If Onu’s elevation to the position of national chairman was in recognition of his sacrifice in 1999, it did not last long, because three years after mounting the saddle as chairman, ANPP went into another merger with four other political parties. The parties were Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) and some members of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) led by then governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha.
   
All those legacy political parties fused to form the current governing All Progressives Congress (APC), which defeated PDP in the 2015 general elections. Shortly after the party’s Presidential candidate in the election, General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) was sworn into office as President, speculations were rife that the former ANPP national chairman would be appointed the SGF.
     
That dream was however aborted, even as Onu was later appointed into the federal cabinet as Minister of Science and Technology. He was returned for a second time as minister on August 21, 2019, after President Buhari won a second term mandate.
  
As Nigeria prepares for another general election cycle, there have been agitations by people of Southeast to benefit from the 1999 scenario, which threw up presidential candidates of all political parties from the Southwest geopolitical zone. 