Basketball players in the country have urged the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, to urgently resolve the leadership crisis rocking the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). The players, who stormed the office of the Sports Minister during the week in Abuja to register their displeasure, frowned at the manner Dare is handling the leadership impasse rocking the federation. Speaking with journalists, former NBA players and board members under the Engr. Musa Kida-led board, Ejike Ugboaja, urged the Sports Minister to address the NBBF leadership crises without sentiment. “The two NBBF elections were concluded two weeks ago, and we don’t know the stand of the Minister. I served under the Musa Kida’s board, and I have played the game for more than twelve years. We have never experienced this type of problem before. Except the Minister has been compromised, I think by today, we ought to have our President and not the ministry running the show. “We want the Minister to come out and tell us what is going on. We want him to address us as the father of all sports in the country. He should tell us his position. Without the players, there is no basketball,” Ugboaja said. Also speaking, the Players Representative on the board of the Igoche Mark-led NBBF, Stanely Gumut, said that basketball players, home and abroad, had thrown their weight behind Mr. Igoche Mark, insisting that the players have vowed not to repeat the mistake made four years ago. “We don’t want to repeat the mistake we made four years ago. Such wasted time is what we don’t want to repeat again. All our fight is about players’ welfare. The truth of the matter is that we (the players) have thrown our weight behind Mr. Igoche Mark. Unfortunately, the ministry is not saying anything about it. We, the players, are the pioneers of this game, and we don’t want to play basketball for free anymore. The minister is supposed to come out and talk to us as a father. But the man has been shying away from talking to us, and his action is becoming worrisome to us,” Gumut stated. Musa Kida stated that he has nothing to say yet on the NBBF Presidency and other issues emanating from any factional group. “I am still waiting for the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, to make his pronouncement on the NBBF election before I can take any step.” 