The Executive Secretary, National Sugar Development Council (NSDC), Zacch Adedeji, has warned that government will no longer tolerate deliberate distortion of the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan (NSMP) by operators under any guise. Adedeji said that operators that violate the master plan would henceforth, be sanctioned. “I wish to appeal to our major operators on the supremacy of the master plan that we are presently implementing; it is no longer a policy, but an Act of the National Assembly as amended in 2015 and based on the commitment of Mr. President to this sector, we will not tolerate distortion of the master plan “Government is committed to implementing to the latter, what we have in the master plan. On our part as the regulator, we will not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law against anyone trying to sabotage the efforts of the government in this sector.” Recall that the NSMP is a 10-year roadmap designed for the sector to enable the nation to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production, create jobs, and generate electricity among other noble objectives. He said: “Flour Mills Limited recently signed a multi-million dollar agreement with the Nasarawa state government to build a factory in Toto LGA of the state. The new project is in addition to the company’s N50 billion Golden Sugar estate in Sunti Niger state which was commissioned in 2018 by President Muhammadu Buhari.” “The new owners of KIA Africa group have set their eyes on producing at least 300,000 metric tonnes of sugarcane, refining an estimated 204,000 metric tonnes of the sweet commodity, and generating N46 billion revenue by 2027, a workforce of about 20,000 employees would be engaged to drive the company towards optimum production and ensure the economic growth of the country,
adedeji said.” Adedeji who dropped the hint yesterday, on a working visit to the Dangote Sugar Refinery (DSR), Numan, Adamawa state, said the government is determined to revitalize the sector for the benefit of Nigerians even though it will not hesitate to punish anyone or group persons with the intention of sabotaging its efforts in the sector. According to him, the sector has notable business groups like the Dangote Sugar Refinery, BUA Sugar Refinery and Golden Sugar Refinery that are currently implementing the Backward Integration Programme (BIP) component of the NSMP. He stressed that the sector has attracted big business players who have invested billions of naira in it, adding, ”Only recently we saw the complete takeover and overhaul of the defunct Nigeria Sugar Company (NISUCO), in Bacita, Kwara state by a new investor known as the KIA Africa. “As we speak, work has commenced there and hundreds of Nigerians living within Bacita as well as other adjoining communities have been gainfully employed and engaged by the company, the sector is opened to genuine and serious investors, we at the Council are always available to provide both policy and technical assistance to willing investors”.