. Napoli move to stop Arsenal from signing Nigerian hotshot When the two last met in November, Napoli attacker Victor Osimhen sustained a skull fracture after colliding heads with Internazionale defender Milan Skriniar, and it was a traumatic experience for him. The Nigerian described the immediate and excruciating feeling he received when the injury occurred to Rome-based publication La Repubblica ahead of Napoli and Inter Milan’s second Serie A battle of the season over the weekend. When Skriniar and Osimhen attempted to head the ball at the same time, there was no malice, but the timing of their separate headers meant that the striker took the brunt of the challenge. Nerazzurri player Skriniar was also in pain following the challenge, but Osimhen suffered a fracture to his cheek and orbital bones that meant that he was out of action for several weeks, and even missed the Africa Cup of Nations. The Partenopei striker is all recovered now though and is ready for Saturday’s match against the Serie A leaders but can still recall the experience. “I immediately felt like my face had exploded. As soon as I touched my left cheek I had no feeling left. I also had trouble sleeping, if I turned to that side, it hurt,” he said. “But I regained my strength,” he went on, “I’m not the type to restrain my passion, I’ve never let this kind of thing hold me back and on the contrary I try to get right back on my feet without feeling sorry for myself.” Osimhen has netted six times in the Serie A so far this season, as well as 4 times in his 3 Europa League appearances to date, and is reportedly a target for north London rivals Arsenal in the summer. Napoli are aware of this and are now planning to extend his current deal with them a little longer. Osimhen’s current deal will expire at the end of June 2025. Italian news site, CalcioNapoli24, claims Napoli have already spoken to Osimhen’s management, and they have informed them they will offer the striker a contract extension. The Nigerian’s deal will expire in 2025. In the interview with La Repubblica, the Nigeria international did not drop any hint of a possible move away from Naples to the North London Premier League outfit, but did reveal that a player currently plying his trade at Arsenal’s fierce North London rivals is the defender he has struggles against the most. The player in question is Tottenham’s Cristian Romero during the Argentine’s time at Atalanta. And according to Osimhen, this was mostly on account of the sheer speed of the 23-year-old who joined Tottenham at the start of the current season. Asked to name his toughest opponent, Osihmen said: “[Cristian] Romero, who is now at Tottenham. He was always faster than me every time we faced each other. The other one is [Napoli and Senegal defender] Kalidou Koulibaly; he never let me score in training. When Nigeria were eliminated from the Africa Cup of Nations, I supported Senegal.” 