The Federal Government says it will sanction employers of labour that fail to pay the national minimum wage of N30,000 per month in accordance with the provisions of the National Minimum Wage Act 2019. The Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC), Ekpo Nta, stated this, yesterday, during a media briefing in Abuja. The Chairman, who was represented by the acting Director, Compensation Department, Chiadi Adighiogu, also informed that the commission will soon begin monitoring the implementation and compliance of employers in line with the provisions of section 12 of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019 and sanctions would be applied where necessary. The National Minimum Wage Act 2019 provides that every employer shall pay a national minimum wage of not less than N30,000 per month to every worker under his establishment, except where the number of employees is less than 25, or are paid on a part-time basis or are seasonal employees. According to a circular just released by the NSIWC titled: ‘Implementation of the National  Minimum Wage of N30,000 per month –Reminder’, the commission directed that any Federal Government agency that is yet to implement the National Minimum Wage and the consequential adjustments arising therefrom in line with NSIWC circulars that were issued on November 14, 2019, should clear with the commission if they are having problems with the implementation. “Agencies that were not mentioned in the circulars, but were required to clear with the commission before implementation, that has already implemented theirs without requisite approvals from the commission should submit details of implementation for verification and ratification,” the circular said. It further added that State, local governments and private sector organisations are at liberty to consult the commission for guidance as they may deem it fit. “The Commission will monitor implementation and compliance in line with the provisions of section 12 of the National Minimum Wage Act 2019. Thereafter, sanctions, as provided in sections 13, 14 and 15, will apply where necessary, ” it said. It would be recalled that soon after the signing into law of the new National minimum wage Act in 2019, many states of the federation said they cannot pay and should be allowed to negotiate with their workers to agree on a sustainable minimum wage otherwise they would be forced to sack workers. 