Police investigating Cristiano Ronaldo for alleged rape thought they had enough evidence to arrest and charge him, but a higher official intervened. Cops in Las Vegas had even approved a warrant for Ronaldo’s arrest after complainant Kathryn Mayorga claimed the Manchester United ace had raped her in a hotel room. The detectives were slapped down by Clark County District Attorney Steve Wolfson, who declined to prosecute the case. According to UK newspaper, The Sun, citing court transcripts, Mayorga’s lawyer Leslie Mark Stovall, revealed: “What happened is when that [arrest warrant] was submitted to the district attorney’s office, Mr. Wolfson declined to prosecute. “He doesn’t say why he decided to decline and anything — any argument is just speculation. It was within the statute of limitations. “The police believed that they had a case to prosecute for one count of sexual assault and the DA decided not to.” Stovall filed the claim in September of last year in the US District Court in Las Vegas, but the transcript has only recently surfaced. District Attorney Wolfson is the lead prosecutor in Clark County, Nevada, which includes Las Vegas. After reviewing the police investigation, Mr Wolfson concluded that there was insufficient evidence to prove the allegations against Ronaldo beyond a reasonable doubt, and no charges were filed. Ronaldo, now 37, settled with his accuser in a civil case where she accepted a $373,839.24 “hush” payment, but she is now seeking a further $75,835,200 in damages. Despite the fact that the police investigation has been terminated, the civil lawsuit is still proceeding. Ronaldo’s legal team has always argued that the police investigated the alleged rape twice, in 2009 and 2018, and found no evidence to support the allegations. And the star disputes the charges, insisting that he and Mayorga had consensual intercourse. According to DA Wolfson, a new investigation by Las Vegas police failed to show that Mayorga’s claim could be proven beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. A July, 2019 statement from the Clark County District Attorney’s office read: “Based upon a review of the information presented at this time, the allegations of sexual assault against Cristiano Ronaldo cannot be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. “Therefore, no charges will be forthcoming.” 