The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) has commended Nigerians and civil society groups over pressure put on President Buhari to sign the amended Electoral Bill into law. The group urged them to strongly resist the removal of Clause 84 (12) from the Electoral Act. The CNPP also said the clause introduced equity into party primaries at all levels. The group, in a statement signed by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, said: “Mr. President is crying more than the bereaved by ordering an immediate removal of the clause that barred political appointees, at all levels, from voting as delegates or be voted for at party conventions or congresses…” CNPP statement read: “Clause 84 (12), which reads: “No political appointee at any level shall be voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election,” only introduced equity in political party primary elections. “An appointee of the executive should not, and must not, be a delegate in primary elections while still in office, just as an appointee must not be contesting as a delegate while still in office. “Such appointees have ended up using their offices to intimidate political opponents of their principals during party primaries in a bid to retain their jobs. “This is the major reason for electoral violence witnessed at political parties’ council and state congresses in the country, with the attendant loss of lives and property. “Rather than delete the clause, the National Assembly should amend any provision of the Constitution that allows appointee to be a delegate or be a voter or contest as delegate at party conventions or congresses the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election. “However, the CNPP congratulates Nigerians, especially active citizens in the civil society community for their resilience, doggedness, and for the non-violent manner they resisted attempt to return the bill for the sixth time to the National Assembly. “We commend the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) leadership for fighting on the side of the masses. We urge INEC to improve on the electoral processes, even as we urge Nigerians to have faith in the INEC leadership to deliver free and fair elections in 2023, in view of the provisions of the new Act.”