 Arthritis. Photo Everyday Health A joint is an area of the body where two or more bones meet, to perform bodily functions connected by bones. Some joints, like the elbow joint and knee joint, are self-lubricating and are able to withstand compression as well as maintain heavy loads. Cartilage is a firm but connective tissue found in several areas of the body: joints, between the vertebrae in the spine, bronchial tubes, end of the ribs. It protects the joints by absorbing the pressure created during movement. A reduction in the normal amount of cartilage causes arthritis. Arthritis is the swelling of one or more joints, which causes pain and stiffness of the joint and this gets worse as one grows older. Although there is no cure, treatments have greatly improved over the years and there is a great benefit when treatment starts at an early stage. There are different types of arthritis but the three common ones are Osteoarthritis, Rheumatoid arthritis and Psoriatic arthritis. Osteoarthritis: This is the most common form of arthritis and it occurs in older people, as well people with weight problems and joint injuries. It occurs mostly at the knees, spine, feet and hips and its symptoms are worse in the mornings and can last up to 30 minutes, or when one rests for a long time. SYMPTOM OF OSTEOARTHRITIS Rheumatoid arthritis: This is when the immune system attacks the joints. In this, the soft tissues in the joints that produces fluid to sustain the cartilage and lubricate the joints destroys both bones and cartilage inside the joints. This pain comes suddenly or gradually and causes pain, stiffness and swelling. SYMPTOMS OF RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS Psoriatic arthritis: This form affects the skin and joints; causes itch and burn on the skin as well as patchy. This affects the joints, skin and areas where tissues attach to bone. Most people develop psoriasis (a disease that causes red patches on the skin) years before being diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis but for some, joint pain begins before the patches appear. SYMPTOMS OF PSORIATIC ARTHRITIS Other types of arthritis are: Gout: A disease that causes hard crystals of uric acid to form in your joints. Juvenile arthritis: A disorder where the immune system attacks the joints. Ankylosing spondylitis: Arthritis of the spine. CAUSES OF ARTHRITIS There are known causes of arthritis GENERAL SYMPTOMS OF ARTHRITIS DIAGNOSIS OF ARTHRITIS When you feel any slight discomfort in your joint, immediately see a physician who will first perform a physical examination to check for fluids around the joint, range of motion in the joints, before referring you to a specialist if need be. Keeping a record of the level of inflammation in the blood, analysing joint fluids can help the specialist determine the type of arthritis a patient has. Doctors use MRI, CT scans and X-rays, urine, to produce an image of the bones and cartilage to rule out other causes of the symptoms. Several visits may be necessary for proper diagnosis. A Rheumatologist is a medical specialist who specialises in the non-surgical treatment like anaemia, joint or muscle pain, anorexia, autoimmune diseases, arthritis among others. TREATMENT OF ARTHRITIS There is no cure for arthritis, but treatments are recommended. Treatments are aimed at controlling pain, minimise joint damages, and maintain function and quality of life. PREVENTION OF ARTHRITIS