 Kim Kardashian wears a Loewe dress. Fashion Editor: Carlos Nazario Photo Vogue Kim Kardashian has made it known that she chooses herself despite the changes caused by her divorce as she graces the cover and spread of Vogue magazine.   In her interview with Vogue, the mom of four lets us in into her life as a mom, businesswoman and her ongoing divorce. Since filing for divorce in 2021, Kim Kardashian has said very little publicly about her split from ex Kanye West. Baring it all in this interview, the Kardashian says, “For so long, I did what made other people happy.” “And I think in the last two years I decided, I’m going to make myself happy. And that feels really good. And even if that created changes and caused my divorce, I think it’s important to be honest with yourself about what really makes you happy. I’ve chosen myself. I think it’s okay to choose you.” “My 40s are about being Team Me. I’m going to eat well. I’m going to work out. I’m going to have more fun, spend more time with my kids and the people who make me happy. I’m going to put my phone down. Unfollow if I don’t want to see something on Instagram. Khloé came up with the best phrase for that yesterday. She said, ‘Post and ghost,'” the 41-year old continued. Noting how important it is for estranged parents to work hard at co-parenting their kids, she urges them to be each other’s cheerleaders. “You could be so hurt or angry at your ex, but I think in front of the kids, it always has to be ‘Your dad’s the best,'” she explains. “Make sure you are your co-parent’s biggest cheerleader, no matter what you’re personally going through.” Kardashian, in a Balenciaga Couture denim look and gloves, with her children, North, 8; Saint, 6; Chicago, 4; and Psalm, 2. Photo Vogue The Skims founder also addressed the recent public feud with West, noting that the only time a cheer turned into a boo was “in early February, after Ye asked his Instagram followers what recourse he had when their daughter North was “put on TikTok against my will.”: Responding to this accusation was the Kardashian alum’s first public response to the month-long, public flurry of accusations Ye fired off at her. “Divorce is difficult enough on our children and Kanye’s obsession with trying to control and manipulate our situation so negatively and publicly is only causing further pain for all,” pointing out her wish that “all matters regarding our children” remain private. Recollecting how hard it was to pass the California Baby Bar exam, she said, “I remember Bob Shapiro [who, along with Kim’s father, was part of O.J. Simpson’s legal “Dream Team”] telling me, ‘You’re fucked,'” She reiterates that her activism work towards changing policies that harm Black and brown communities helps her be a better mom. “This work has taught me so much,” she explains. “Especially raising Black boys, who are going to be targeted so much more than their white friends.” Acknowledging the power she and her sisters hold as social media influencers, Kim says, “There’s definitely an influence, both positive and negative, on how a whole group of people view themselves because of social media. I can see that. I’m not blocked off to the idea that it exists.” She continues, “But I try to think, Okay, if I’m raising my kids, how would I react if I felt like there were things on TikTok or Instagram that I wouldn’t want them to see and be a part of? We would have those conversations.” Very body-positive, Kim Kardashian addressed her Met Gala look that took the world by storm. She revealed that she had initially rejected the look “I fought against it. I was like, I don’t know how I could wear the mask. Why would I want to cover my face?” she recalls. “But Demna and the team were like, This is a costume gala. This is not a Vanity Fair party where everyone looks beautiful. There’s a theme and you have to wear the mask. That is the look.” Obviously not afraid of what the future might hold, Kim’s ready to take on the world and she “might just be in Skims and be so comfy and casual and wear no makeup, and that might be what I feel like representing to the world. Maybe it’s just not that serious.” She however makes no mention of her new beau Pete Davidson or Kanye West’s beau Julia Fox. Kim’s really choosing herself and there’s nothing anyone can do about it.  