The 2030 target set by the United Nations for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is eight years from now. That is to say Nigeria has that length of time to achieve the 17 SDGs of No Poverty, Zero Hunger, Good Health and Wellbeing, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Clean Water and Sanitation, Affordable Clean Energy, as well as Decent Work and Economic Growth. Others are Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; Reduced Inequalities; Sustainable Cities and Communities; Responsible Consumption and Production; Climate Action; Life Below Water; Life on Land; Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, as well Partnerships for the Goals. In Nigeria, the period of eight years may not look feasible for the achievement of the sustainable development goals when one considers the numerous challenges the country has faced for some time now, chief of which, at the moment, is insecurity. Without doubt, the current state of insecurity in the country has a direct bearing on most, if not all the goals. But the good thing is that despite the prevailing situation, the federal government is forging ahead on all fronts to achieve substantially the number of goals that would improve the standard of living of Nigerians by 2030. This includes diversification of the nation’s economy, to reduce dependence on oil. The effort to diversify the economy is beginning to yield results, as the bumper harvests being recorded in the agricultural sector, particularly local production of rice, has shown. The Blue Economy, a baby of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), is one of the efforts at diversifying the nation’s economy. The project falls statutorily under the promotional purview and mandate of NIMASA as detailed in the three legislations of Marchant Shipping Act, Cabotage Act and NIMASA Act. The initiative is borne out of the belief that Nigeria’s waters, whether blue or brown, hold more economic potential than is currently known and utilized – potential that could help in boosting the nation’s economy and, ultimately, improving the standard of living of Nigerians, if fully exploited. Nigeria took a historic step towards exploiting the benefits of Blue Economy on January 17, 2022, when the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, inaugurated the Expanded Committee on Sustainable Blue Economy in Nigeria in Abuja. It is a project that is going to see the country benefit fully from the numerous resources that lie buried in its ocean, rivers, lakes, creeks, and even streams. For decades, attention has focused on oil and gas, though the country is endowed with more than these two resources. When fully operational, the Blue Economy is going to have direct impact on SDG such as reduction of hunger, especially in communities in the riverine areas in the littoral states that border the ocean – Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ondo, Edo, Delta, Rivers and Lagos, and also Ogun and Bornu. The full exploitation of newly discovered resources would create more decent sources of livelihood and enhance economic growth and development in the littoral states and beyond. This would in turn improve the health and general wellbeing of the people in those areas. Despite the fact that most states in the country, including the littoral states, now provide free education up to various levels, access to quality education up to tertiary level still remains a mirage to many children. With enhanced economic power, it is going to be possible for parents to give their children quality education beyond secondary level, for the purpose of being sufficiently equipped to be able to make meaningful contributions to the socio-economic development of the country. Available statistics show an appreciable reduction in the rate of crime in the Nigerian maritime environment, especially piracy, thanks to the Deep Blue Project of NIMASA. Continued improvement in security in the country’s waterways will bring about increased participation in traditional economic activities such as fishing, which is the main occupation of a majority of riverine communities. This, in addition to the efforts of the agency in clearing the waterways of relics and wrecks, will improve not just the quality of lives of people in riverine communities, but also aquatic life. The steps being taken towards development of the Blue Economy are going to bring about participation of more women in socio-economic activities. With more economically empowered women, there will be increased female participation in political and decision making processes, thereby reducing gender disparity in the country. Development of the Blue Economy has yet to fully take off, but NIMASA has already commenced the process of entering into partnerships with littoral states who are actually the frontlines for the economic emancipation battle to harness what is under, within, on top or around the country’s waters for further economic development of the country and improvement in the quality of life of its people. Discussions have so far involved the governors of Bayelsa, Rivers, Edo, Ondo and Lagos states. The discussions are ongoing, and will involve the governors of the remaining littoral states. The aim is to bring all the states in this geographical extension on board the project. • Dr. Jamoh, Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, writes exclusively for The Guardian 