Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has rejected an ‘offer’ by the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to contest a second term in office on its platform. The Lagos governor’s party All Progressives Congress (APC) in a statement by its spokesman Seye Oladejo said the PDP is “desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable.” “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu hereby unequivocally rejects this Greek gift and hereby states that APC remains his party of choice in making his next political move, which will be made known in due course to all Lagosians,” Oladejo said. A PDP chieftain in Lagos State Ganiu Taofik on Thursday said the party is ready to receive Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu if indeed he wants to return to office in 2023. READ MORE: Sanwo-Olu speaks on plans for 2022 But Oladejo said the opposition party will only lead Lagos State to “the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state.” While Sanwo-Olu is yet to formally announce his intention to re-contest a second term in office, the APC spokesman said the APC “acknowledged his glowing performance across various sectors in his first term, is certainly still available to recontest for another term.” Oladejo said Sanwo-Olu’s “deft handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the successful execution of the all-encompassing THEMES agenda has endeared him to Lagosians as a compassionate, committed, and the right leader for a time like this. “He has, without doubt, redirected our state to the path of progress and restored our pride of place as the leading light in the federation. “As the ruling party, we want to admonish the state governor to remain focused and undistracted from the onerous task of finishing strongly and fulfilling his part of the social contract with the good people of Lagos State.” The APC spokesman warned the PDP to desist from its age-long tactics and attempts to destabilize the ruling party by a deliberate promotion of falsehood, blackmail, and arms-twisting strategies for political advantage. “While we sympathize with Lagos State PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it put its house in order to have a semblance of relevance,” Oladejo said. 