• Pray for Nigeria, not predict doom, Akiolu tells Sanusi
• Wants FG to equip NDLEA for better drug war
• ‘Drug abuse responsible for rising ritual killings among youths’
• Nigeria’s next President must be a Christian, southerner, Onitiri insists The founder of Afe Babalola University Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Chief Afe Babalola, yesterday, warned that with the multiplicity of problems bedevilling the country, Nigeria is on the precipice and may collapsed in no  distance time. Babalola, who stated this at the conclusion of the COREN Output – Based Education (OBE) workshop in Ado-Ekiti, said something drastic must be done to reverse the trend; otherwise, the country might face a total collapse. He, therefore, reiterated his earlier call for a new constitution for Nigeria, saying: “What we must do as a nation is to fashion out a new people’s constitution. I have always been advocating a new constitution. “We all know that under the present 1999 Constitution and the electoral system, knowledgeable professionals like you cannot win elections in this country having regard to the fact that elections in Nigeria are highly monetised.” In his remark, the Registrar of COREN, Prof. Joseph Odigure, said there was need to strengthen accreditation system for engineering in Nigerian universities for the purpose of producing graduates that would meet local and international demands. MEANWHILE, the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, has asked former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, to pray for Nigeria to witness better things rather than wish the nation negative. He, however, said Nigeria would experience the best of things in 2023 and post-2023. Oba Akiolu said this, yesterday, when the Lagos State Commander of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Calys Alumona, paid a visit to his palace. The monarch implored the Federal Government to equip NDLEA and other security agencies to enable them wage war against drug abuse. Alumona, who disclosed that the command was in the palace to solicit support for drag war and get royal blessing, said that the rising ritual killings among the youths were aided by drug abuse. IN another development, a socio-political activist and critic, Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, has suggested that Nigeria’s next President must be a southerner and Christian. Onitiri, who gave the advice in a statement yesterday in Lagos, said: “We cannot run away from religion being a key factor in our political structure. The North and South structure can also not be overlooked.” He, therefore, implored the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to champion the cause, reminding all Nigerians that in year 2014, some Muslim associations championed the cause of Buhari to be the President.