Former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Abubakar Kawu Baraje, yesterday, declared that rotational presidency remains a written code in the party’s reviewed Constitution. Baraje, also a former National Secretary of the party will tomorrow be conferred with the traditional title of Tafida of Ilorin by the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, made the assertion while addressing reporters in his country home in Ilorin. Responding to question on his opinion on former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar on zoning ahead of the 2023 presidential election, he said: “Atiku was right over his comment, but he has forgotten that constitution of PDP, has been amended. “I believe some of us will remind him that it was not in the constitution of PDP, some years ago, but it is now clearly stated in the PDP constitution that zoning should be respected and there is a caveat in the constitution. “That caveat stated that zoning should be respected to give a sense of belonging to all members of the party and for all-inclusiveness, except and only when a resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) decides otherwise.” He explained that the constitution was reviewed to reflect the zoning arrangement sometime around 2011, maintaining that before now, the issue of zoning was an oral tradition of PDP, which was as good as being written. “I met it like that when I took over as National Secretary in 2008. Even when it was an oral tradition of the party, it was highly respected. It was formally included in the party’s constitution when we were reviewing it before I left in 2011,” he stated. Baraje, however said, he was not sure that Atiku was talking about the party’s constitution, adding: “I think Atiku was talking about the Nigeria constitution and not that PDP, because zoning is not in the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” The former PDP chairman also submitted that it was time for the North Central geopolitical zone to produce the president of the country, as it had not done so since independent. He, however, warned that the campaign for zoning should not be over-flogged in order not to further divide the country. On his traditional title of ‘Tafida of Ilorin’ conferred on him by the Emir of Ilorin, he said: “It is a great honour and fulfillment to be so recognised in one’s hometown.” “Although, it came to me as a surprise, because I never expected it. After the announcement, I went to do my research on what Tafida means and the role expected of the holder and I discovered that it emanated from Egypt. “But it was later adopted by the Hausa/Fulani tradition and my research also revealed that the full title is ‘Tafida Aiki Seriki’ which means co-traveler of the Emir. Therefore, the title is bestowed on someone, who is close to the Emir, understands the tradition and gives his life for the service of community.” 