• NUGA, Gamr Africa sign pact on e-sports University of Calabar (UNICAL) Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Florence Obi, has described the right granted the school to host the 26th zonal preliminaries of the Nigeria University Games Association (NUGA) as a great honour that will boost sporting activities in the institute. Addressing members of the NUGA Games committee at the institution’s Council Chamber, Prof. Obi, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Administration, Prof. Michael Okom, said she was pleased with the choice of UNICAL as the host institution for the Games, saying it will improve facilities in the school and also contribute to the economic wellbeing of members of the university community. The vice-chancellor, who described herself as a sports enthusiast, said her administration is committed to ensuring that sport is given necessary support in the institution. Responding, zonal chairman of the Committee, Dr. Joseph Ukpong, said the committee is committed to ensuring that the institution gets all the support to achieve its best and urged the university management not to relent in building a conducive environment for university athletes to exhibit their skills. Meanwhile, NUGA and GamR Africa, a technology company with speciality in Electronic Sports (eSports), tournament organisation and eSports talent development, have signed a partnership that will bring e-sports tournaments to Nigerian universities.
 
A statement by NUGA said the agreement symbolised its interest in pursuing eSports talent development and tournament organisation in the country’s universities. It added. : “E-sport is a growing industry across the world, especially amongst young people, who find the world of pads and electronic simulation more alluring than playing on the fields or courts. NUGA embracing e-sport is a testament that the Nigerian university sport scene isn’t left behind as the world tilts towards competitive gaming.” Speaking on the pact, Gamr Africa CEO, Eniola Edun, said this deal symbolised the importance placed on talent development, adding that it served as an opportunity to demonstrate to the younger generation, especially students, the many careers path in the Esports and gaming space. “Students can begin to learn and grow in various spaces afforded to them by Esports and gaming, from game developers to shout casters, to being a team administrator, to live streamers and so on, we are going to broaden the minds of the student and the younger generation,” he said. Gaming has moved beyond leisure play and entertainment, according to Edun, who disclosed that Gamr is positioned to take Nigerian students to achieve the best in the industry, including scholarship partnerships with schools in Europe and America and also opportunities to participate in global tournaments.  This year’s NUGA-Gamr Esports Championship will kick off in April 2022. 