The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has called on teachers to be more committed to bringing up upright, honest and properly shaped pupils for a better society. The Media Adviser to the minister, Mr Sola Fasure, made this known in a statement on Friday in Abuja. According to Fasure, the minister gave the advise in Akure, while hosting the 1971 to ‘75 set of his Alma Mater, Akoko Anglican Grammar School (AKOGRAMS), Arigidi, Akoko. minister, however, noted that when pupils are properly brought up, it would go a long way in ridding the society of crime and criminality prevalent among youths in the country. “What is obviously lacking is sufficient parental guardians. Let us address parental issues. “Parents must be encouraged to properly groom their children, and grooming is not just about discipline, it goes beyond that. It involves correcting vices, malpractices, maladjustments, misbehaviours among others. “When parents are up against vices and are sensitive to what their children are doing, what they are reading, to what they are watching, to the company they keep, definitely we are going to have well-groomed, disciplined and well-bred children. “The home is the first foundation of morality.” Aregbesola noted further that the society at large had a role to play in shaping the morality of youths. He, therefore, appealed to non-governmental organisations, religious bodies, societies, associations, and well-meaning Nigerians to support government efforts at all levels in developing the education infrastructure. The minister stressed the need to complement the government’s efforts since it could not attend to the needs of the institution alone, particularly on infrastructure. “I call on other bodies to support the government’s effort at developing, funding, running, and maintaining the educational institution for adequate and effective infrastructural activity. “That is why I am joining my mates and colleagues and other old students to see how we can support, develop, fund, and support the effort of the government in providing infrastructure and rehabilitating the old structures, in order to make them functional as well as motivate the current students,” he said. 