Eating the right diet including vegetables, fresh fruits, tiger-nuts milk and engaging in exercise can prevent cancer, experts have said. The experts, who spoke yesterday during a press conference and enlightenment campaign to mark the World Cancer Day 2022, advised Nigerians to visit a hospital as soon as they notice any symptoms of cancer. Speaking on the theme of this year’s celebration: ‘Close The Care Gap,’ the Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA)-Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Cancer Centre, Idi-Araba, Dr. Lylian Ekpo, said the government was committed to treatment of cancer and was making huge investments in the procurement of a well-equipped cancer centre. The Cancer Centre, he noted, was not just the best in Nigeria but also in the entire Sahara Africa. “We have state-of-the-art machines that can give effective radiotherapy to patients with cancer as well as chemotherapy mediations that are necessary so that people can get the treatment they need,” said. To avoid cancer, a Consultant Radiation/Clinical	 Oncologist, Dr. Bolanle Adegboyega, advised the masses to run away from fried food, fatty food and shun red meat as they approach 50 years and above. Also, a Consultant Radiation/Clinical	 Oncologist, Dr. Godwin Uwagba, said the first thing to do was that anyone with cancer symptoms should go for diagnosis to identify the type of cancer towards receiving an effective treatment. Consultant, Radiation/Clinical	Oncologist, Dr. Mohammad Habeebu, also stressed that cancer could be caused by inherent and environmental factors, noting that the latter could be prevented by avoiding junks, fatty diets, diets that have chemical preservatives, cigarette smoking, alcohol as well as exposure to ironising radiation. Another Consultant, Radiation and Clinical Oncologist, Dr. Anthonia Sowunmi, said cancer was not contagious, adding that one could eat and socialise with cancer patients. Social Media Influencer and Filmmaker at the event, Efe Irele, said it was important for celebrities like her to create awareness on how to prevent cancer and its treatment on social media platforms, which she also described as a way of giving back to her numerous followers.