The local organising committee (LOC) for the 11th Daniel Ogechi Akujobi Memorial (DOAM) Foundation’s yearly charity golf tournament has promised participants a memorable time at the event, which holds on February 26 at the Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Section. The tournament could not hold last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but despite the setback, the Foundation was able to sustain its activities during that year. In the process, it touched over 3,000 lives through the various health and education programmes executed during the worst periods of the pandemic. The Foundation, over a decade ago, embarked on a journey to touch lives in underserved communities across the country. In response to the Foundation’s call for support, corporate and individual partners joined hands to support its intervention programmes in the areas of healthcare, accident/emergency services, and education. These programmes continue to positively impact a number of communities particularly, vulnerable children and youths. The Foundation disclosed that it organised free healthcare services for marginalised communities, including the Leper’s colony at Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State, donations of food, relief and welfare items to the impoverished and less privileged. “Also, youth mentorship programmes, advocacy and sensitisation on hygiene, routine administration of de-worming and vitamin supplements for children within several public primary schools, and other healthy living programmes were carried out during the period. “These achievements were made possible by the magnanimity and support shown to the Foundation by corporate organisations and individuals during the yearly Charity Golf Tournament. “The Golf Section of Ikoyi Club 1938, in Lagos, has also been very supportive and continues to ally with the Foundation in deploying Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) events,” the Foundation said in a statement. Speaking on plans for this year’s event, coordinator of the tournament, Pat Bassey, said: “We are glad that the event has proved to be a trusted platform through which a lot of these organisations and individuals want to intervene positively in the society.” Bassey said the 2022 DOAMF Charity Golf Tournament will provide another platform for the Foundation to showcase the activities and programmes implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as highlighting the its sustainable and judicious use of funds it generates. “It also provides another opportunity for more corporate entities and individuals to partner with this cause and to enhance the positive impact on the disadvantaged communities and persons,” Bassey added, while disclosing that the qualifier for this year’s edition was held on January 22, 2022. 