NBA Africa Saturday celebrated the launching of its Nigerian office and its third in Africa. The office is located at Alara in Victoria Island, Lagos. The evening event was attended by NBA Africa strategic investors and partners, former WNBA and NBA players Astou Ndiaye, Olumide Oyedeji and Obinna Ekezie, as well as various stakeholders representing sports, entertainment and media industry. The highlight of the event were music performances by Ayra Starr and DJ Spinall. The evening reception followed the league’s launch of Africa’s first floating basketball court at the Lekki-Ikoyi Bridge, in partnership with Hennessy, a night before. The Nigerian office is led by Vice President and Country Head Gbemisola Abudu and is the league’s third office on the continent after those in Johannesburg, South Africa and Dakar in Senegal. In her new role, Abudu is responsible for leading the league’s basketball and business development initiatives in Nigeria, including grassroots programming for youth, elite player development, relationships with current and prospective marketing, media and merchandise partners, and social responsibility efforts that improve the lives of youth and families in Nigeria. Abudu’s appointment was first announced in December. She reports to NBA Africa CEO Victor Williams. “We are excited about expanding NBA Africa’s operations in Nigeria with the launch of our office in Lagos and thrilled to have Gbemisola join us to lead our efforts in the country,” said Williams. “As an established business leader, entrepreneur, global marketing expert and social activist, Gbemisola’s expertise will be invaluable in helping us continue to grow basketball and the NBA in a country that already has a strong affinity for the game.” “Joining NBA Africa as the Vice President & Country Head of Nigeria and opening the league’s office here is the opportunity of a lifetime and the culmination of all my experiences to date,” said Abudu. “As a lifelong basketball fan and Nigeria native, I look forward to working with the NBA Africa team to help build a more comprehensive basketball ecosystem in the country and to using the transformative power of sport to impact lives in Nigeria and beyond.” 