Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state has ruled out the chances of the opposition peoples democratic party (PDP) aborting his second term bid at the poll scheduled to hold 16th July this year. Speaking shortly after submitting his expression of interest form at the APC secretariat in Abuja, he said the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) is firmly on the ground in Osun State. “Well I can talk about my party the APC, it remains the party to beat anytime, any day,” Oyetola said. “I don’t see them having any extraordinary chance of doing what we are doing. “The works, infrastructures that we have done is there for everyone to see. We have also received so much ratings from the people who are to decide in terms of what we have been able to do.” Oyetola said in spite of the challenges of the paucity of funds, he had been able to ensure payment of workers’ salaries, provision of infrastructure, and various empowerment programmes to the citizenry in the state. He added: “We believe that given all that we have been able to do within the period of time with paucity of funds, if given the privilege, I will continue to improve on what we have done. In the area of rural roads, a lot have been done as well. As we speak traditional rulers, artisans, workers have been endorsing us, most of them asking me to continue. “With my modest achievements, I have earned the award for the best governor of the year from; Business Day, Champion, and Blueprint Newspapers. Recently for the most outstanding leader in governance and citizens welfare from AIT. And the Nigerian NewsDirect gave me the award as the outstanding man of the year. “These are things that have clearly indicated that we are right on course. I won’t give this credit to myself alone, I have very able cabinet members. It is a collective responsibility. If given the opportunity to manage the affairs of the state for another four years, I will turn it around in a manner that will be so surprising. “I must thank also the members of the press for the support in the three years and three months despite the fact that COVID took a chunk of the time yet we have a lot of giant strides we can talk about.” 