MTN unveils new brand identity Feb 27
The Federal Government has officially handed the 3.5GHz frequency band to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for onwards assignment to the winners of the 5G auctioning process. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, disclosed this at the public presentation of the National Policy on 5G Networks for Nigeria’s Digital Economy and Spectrum for 5G Deployment, yesterday, in Abuja. He said adopting 5G technology and rolling out 5G networks would fast-track the development of Nigeria’s digital economy, adding that 5G networks would provide fast and reliable communication for security personnel and allow them to swiftly access data required to carry out their duties. Pantami observed that following the successful auctioning of the 3.5GHz in December 2021, Nigeria is set to start enjoying the economic benefits of deploying 5G networks, adding that with near real-time downloads and uploads, 5G would revolutionise every sector of the economy and accelerate digitisation, enhance connectivity and reliability. He reiterated that the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) had certified the deployment of 5G safe, without any adverse health effect. TELECOMMUNICATIONS firm, MTN, has announced plans to change its brand identity with a new campaign. The new campaign, according to a statement, yesterday, is expected to begin from February 27. The statement reads: “MTN Group’s Ambition 2025, aimed at ‘Leading digital platforms for Africa’s progress’ has ushered in a new look that is aligned to our evolution from a telecommunications company to a technology company underpinned by one simple, consistent, yet striking brand. “Our commitment and focus to accelerate Africa’s progress sees MTN revealing a refreshed brand identity and campaign from February 27. The campaign is inspired by an insight that ‘doing’ is a bridge between ‘can’ and ‘done’, because all progress comes from action.” MTN currently serves 73 million Nigerians with 37.7 per cent penetration, the largest in the country. In its audited financial result released recently, MTN said its active data users increased by 1.7 million to 34.3 million, active fintech subscribers rose by 4.8 million to 9.4 million, while service revenue increased by 23.3 per cent to N1.7 trillion. The Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Karl Toriola, said 2021 was a significant year for our company. “We made good progress towards our Ambition 2025 objectives, demonstrating the strength and resilience of the business. This reflects the firm foundations on which our business is built, the tenacity and commitment of our people and the support of our stakeholders.”