Former Super Eagles captain, Austin Jay Jay Okocha has said that he was sad over the team’s early exit at the just concluded Africa Nations Cup in Cameroun. Okocha, who won the Nations Cup trophy at Tunisia ’94, was among ex-players listed by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) as Ambassadorial Support Group for the team at the AFCON, where the Eagles were eliminated by Tunisia in the round of 16. Speaking with journalists in Lagos at the weekend, when leading sports and digital entertainment company, BetKing, rewarded two of its customers with brand new SUVs as part of its AFKON campaign, Okocha said: “I felt so sad that the Super Eagles was knocked out in the round of 16 in Cameroun. It has never happened for a long time in Nigeria’s football.” Okocha, a brand ambassador to BetKing, however said that he is optimistic the Super Eagles would turn the disappointment in Cameroun to joy in the Qatar 2022 World Cup playoff against Ghana. “The Super Eagles still have what it takes to beat Ghana in the World Cup playoff, and we have to support coach Augustine Eguavoen and Emmanuel Amuneke to get the ticket.” The BetKing campaign, tagged #ThatAFKONFeeling, was launched in January as part of the company’s efforts to celebrate African football and reward its customers during the African Cup of Nations in Cameroun. The car presentation ceremony, which took place at Ikoyi, Lagos, on Sunday, had key stakeholders in attendance, including Okocha, BetKing and KingMakers executives. Okocha and Oladipo Olasope, Chief Financial Officer, Kingmakers presented the cars to the winners, Joseph Ezugwu from Anambra State and Ugochukwu Nwagbo from Edo State. Speaking at the event, Oludare Kafar, Head, BTL Marketing, Kingmakers, said: “It’s been an exciting past few weeks and we are glad to wrap up the AFKON campaign in grand style as we reward two of our winners with brand new car prizes. At BetKing, we are deeply committed to celebrating African football and rewarding our customers, hence, we look forward to future initiatives such as this. “As you can see, for this campaign, there is still one more brand new SUV available to be won, and we are on the search for the winner. We urge our customers to partake in this very exciting promo to stand a chance to win the third JAC SUV.”, Oludare added. In addition to the cars, the three winners will also be receiving exclusive BetKing jackets officially signed by Okocha. One of the winners of the cars, Joseph Ezugwu, said: “I am so excited and very grateful to BetKing for my brand new SUV. Today, I truly feel like a king and I owe that to BetKing.” 