Stakeholders in Imo State have expressed concern over the poor turnout of youths in the state and the South East region in the ongoing nationwide police recruitment exercise. They charged youths in Imo and the four other states of the zone to take full advantage of the exercise by getting involved in the recruitment exercise, stressing that a robust participation in the employment will help to address alleged marginalisation and improve their development and wellbeing. The stakeholders made the call, yesterday, at a one-day sensitiaation programme and Town Hall meeting in Owerri organised by the Police Service Commission (PSC) on police recruitment in Nigeria. Guest speaker at the meeting, Director, Institute for Peace, Conflict and Development Studies, Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), Prof. Felix Asogwa and Commissioner of PSC for the South East, Chief Onyemuche Nnamani, identified misconception, misinformation, corruption, poor welfare package for police officers, among others as the causes of the situation. They also attributed poor attitude and human relationship of police personnel with the members of the public to why most qualified Igbo youths have been discouraged from joining the police force. Also, Governor Hope Uzodimma, who was represented by the Commissioner for Homeland Security and Vigilante Affairs, Ugorji O. Ugorji, Secretary, Imo State Traditional Rulers Council, Eze Lucky Okoro, and the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Rabiu Hussaini, said the situation, which would have adverse implications, could be addressed with the right orientation and constant sensitisation. They urged the religious leaders, traditional rulers and other stakeholders to collaborate in ensuring change of narrative aimed at encouraging Igbo youths to be involved in police recruitment exercise. “There is a compelling and urgent need to encourage Imo State youths to be recruited in the police and help to protect life and property in the state, as no other person can do it better. “lf we want protection and a safer state, we must make sacrifices and invest in it. There must be extra benefits and offers to get the right young people to join the force and in the near future, we will have the police of our dreams,” Nnamani said. 