A widow, Mrs. Ifeyinwa Virginia Ngene, has cried out to the State Commissioner of Police, Lawal Abubakar over alleged continued harassment, intimidation and threat of ejection from late husband’s country home by some family members. Mrs Ngene, a farmer at Amaechi Awkunanaw, Enugu south council alleged that Chukwuma Eneh and two others have made life unbearable for her and the children since the death of her husband in 2018. She said, in the petition to the Enugu State Commissioner Police written on her behalf by the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), that the family members have issued her quit notice in her late husband’s house through an Enugu based lawyer. She further accused the family members of attempting to use every available tactics, including unlawful means, to chase her and children away from the said home, appealing to the Enugu Police Commissioner to come to their rescue. The petition signed by the Enugu State Publicity Secretary of CLO, Comrade Odiegwu Micheal, and made available to reporters in Enugu on Wednesday, described the development as pure “acts of harassment, intimidation and conspiracy.” The statement read: “It is with heavy heart and total surprise to press home this complaint, which is bitter to hear, cultivated by the suspects. “CLO, seriously views this as a deliberate attempt not to allow the petitioner, a widow, to live her normal life, and enjoy what her husband left for her and the children. “We have equally approached the man at the centre stage and other family members for peace to reign, but all efforts we made to reach them proved abortive, hence we are urging you to avert what may likely become a homicide.” The petition further urged the Enugu Police Commissioner to ensure safety of widow and children and stressed the need to invite accused persons for questioning. “They should explain the reason why they are taking laws into their hands against a defenseless illiterate widow. “It is said that the principal suspect have always ignored the invitation extended to him by the Community heads for prove of ownership of the disputed building,” they said. When contacted on phone, the principal accused person, Chukwuma Eneh, denied any wrong doing, even as he dismissed the allegations leveled against him by the widow. He maintained that the said disputed three bedrooms and parlour do not belong to the widow’s husband but rather, was built by a late family uncle. Chief Eneh, who spoke in Igbo language demanded the reporter to ask the Widow “why was her late husband’s remains were not buried in the compound of the disputed building if truly he was the original owner.”