Download logo The stakeholders and implementing partners of the FAO/GEF project (GCP/INT/147/GFF) have welcomed the completion of the inclusive process that led to the finalization of the regional strategy for the centralization, securing and disposal of obsolete pesticides in West Africa and the Sahel. This strategy is a flagship product of this project which started in 2016 and aims at the disposal of obsolete pesticide stocks in compliance with the health and environmental standards in force and the strengthening of the management of pesticides and empty packaging in the CILSS Member States. The first activities in the countries consisted in making an inventory of existing pesticides in all forms. Thus, more than 1,580 tons were inventoried and grouped in 255 sites for all the beneficiary countries before being disposed of. To facilitate these various operations at the country level, national centralization and disposal plans were drawn up to coordinate removal/exportation actions. Based on field experiences, FAO has initiated an inclusive and participatory process to develop the regional strategy, which aims to harmonize and coordinate high-risk stockpile disposal operations while addressing the priorities of each country. It provides the basis for minimizing risks to public health and the environment. The development of this strategy is a flagship product of the project which was welcomed by the Sub-Regional for West Africa Office's Senior Policy Officer, Ms Bintia Tchicaya. “I invite actors and partners to adopt good practices and especially to put into practice the advice contained in the regional strategy to reduce the risks linked to the misuse of pesticides on populations and the environment”. She also praised the constructive spirit between the field actors and the consultants at national and regional levels that prevailed during the field activities. After its validation, the regional strategy for centralizing, securing and eliminating obsolete pesticides will guide the project's future activities, which will consist of the effective elimination of 475 tons, i.e. half of the quantity inventoried. This choice is explained by the lack of resources for this activity in view of the high cost of disposal work on the international market. Thus, countries with small to medium quantities will see all their stocks eliminated (Chad, Gambia, Cape Verde, Guinea Bissau, Burkina Faso). On the other hand, those with large quantities of pesticides, the higher risk stocks prioritized by the country's stakeholders will be eliminated (Senegal, Mauritania, Niger).  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FAO Regional Office for Africa.