• Broom sweeps Gwagwalada, Kwali, Abaji
• As umbrella shelters AMAC, Bwari, Kuje
• Ayu vows to replicate party’s victory in Osun, Ekiti In an exercise marred by operational deficiencies, candidates of the two major political parties, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have won various seats in Saturday’s area council elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The polls were held across 68 wards/constituencies spread across Bwari, Abaji, Gwagwalada, Kuje, Kwali and Abuja Municipal Council (AMAC) area councils of the nation’s capital. Altogether, 473 candidates sponsored by 14 political parties participated in the election, which many observer groups said was flawed by widespread vote buying, low turnout and malfunctioning of Biometric Voters Accreditation System (BVAS). While APC won the chairmanship seats in Abaji, Gwagwalada and Kwali, PDP took Abuja Municipal Council (AMAC), Bwari, and Kuje area councils of the FCT. This came as PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, vowed: “What we have just achieved in Abuja, the seat of power, will be replicated in Ekiti and Osun State later this year, culminating in our take over of power at the centre next year, to usher in a better, more prosperous and secure Nigeria.” He added: “The victory at the FCT polls represents a great omen under my watch as we lead PDP back to winning ways and rebuilding Nigeria. This victory, which gave us the important AMAC, is a signal that Nigerians are tired of the woes and hardship of the moment, occasioned by the worsening socio-economic realities of today.” According to official results declared by INEC, yesterday, candidate of the PDP, Suleman Sabo, polled 13,301 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu, of the APC who had 7,694 votes in the Kuje chairmanship contest. With a margin of 5,607 votes, Sabo will now serve a second term in office as chairman of Kuje Council Area.
For Gwagwalada Area Council, INEC Returning Officer, I.D. Umar, declared APC candidate, Jubrin Abubakar, as chairman-elect of the keenly contested election. Abubakar, a former chairman of the council, polled 11,125 to defeat his opponent, Mohammed Kassim, of the PDP who garnered 9,597. Candidate of the PDP, John Gabaya, was also declared chairman-elect of Bwari Area Council by INEC.  Gabaya, who was re-elected for a second two-year term, defeated his closest rival, Audi Shekwolo, of the APC. Gabaya scored 13,045 votes, while Shekwolo had 7,697 votes, according to Returning Officer, Amochi Madu, who announced the result, yesterday morning. The candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Abubakar Abdullahi, however polled 603 votes to come a distant third. PDP also took the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) chairmanship seat. Christopher Zakka (Maikalangu) of the PDP defeated his closest rival, Murtala Karshi (Yamarayi) of the APC and 10 others, to win the election. Returning Officer, Sani Saka, announced that Zakka polled 19,302 votes to defeat Karshi, who secured 13,249 votes. For the Kwali Area Council chairmanship election, Returning Officer, Wesley Daniel, declared the APC winner. Danladi Chiya of the APC defeated his closest rival, Haruna Pai, of the PDP to win the keenly contested election. Chiya, who will now serve his second term in office, polled 7,646 votes, while Pai garnered 7,345 votes, a difference of 301 votes. Also, the APC won the chairmanship seat in Abaji area council. Returning Officer of the council election in Abaji, Prof. Gabriel Mordi, declared that APC scored 7,289 votes to defeat the candidate of the opposition PDP, Alhaji Yahaya Garba Gawu, who got 4,062 votes.