Are Nigerian lotteries no longer doing it for you? While a wide range of lotto games is available, some people have an insatiable appetite. They’d like to test out new games, crossing the country’s border and looking into what other nations have to offer. If you want to play Ghana Lotto from Nigeria, you can easily do so: Playing international lotteries has been getting increasingly appealing. Luckily, such opportunities exist and the niche is becoming more popular than ever before. Ghana Lotto 5/90 is a definite lucrative choice for Nigerians due to several characteristics. For a start, Ghana Lotto comes with a guaranteed jackpot of over 16,000 US dollars. In the event of no winner, that sum can grow and reach life-changing proportions. Through the right Ghana Lotto vendor, you can access the game of luck in the comfort of your living room. Lotteries in Ghana have been around ever since 1958. While that initiative did have a rocky start, lotteries took roots firmly in Ghanaian society in 2006. At the time, the National Lottery Authority (NLA) became effective and it started managing lotteries within the local community. NLA’s flagship game, Ghana Lotto, is the most popular one in the country. As the name suggests, it’s a draw-style lottery that has players choosing five digits from a pool of 90. There’s a total of four ways to play Ghana Lotto.   Ghana Lotto can be a lot of fun because it’s up to you to strategize how you’ll partake in the opportunity. Currently, there are four different ways to test your luck. The first number drop is an opportunity in which you’ll be trying to guess the first number that will be drawn on that specific day. There are also direct bets. These are available in the range of one to five. This means you will be entering anywhere between one and five numbers on your ticket. If you choose direct four, for example, you will be choosing four digits and you will be trying to match all four of them in an attempt to win a prize. Perm two to five is a permutations-based opportunity. In that case, you will be playing multiple sets of numbers. These improve your odds of getting the correct combination. Permutations, however, are going to be more expensive to play than a single line. If you opt for such an opportunity, make sure that it’s compatible with your budget and you’re participating in Ghana Lotto responsibly. There is one final way to play Ghana Lotto. It is called Banker Against All. That fun final opportunity allows you to choose one number (called the banker). To win a prize, the banker should appear among the winning numbers drawn. To get the jackpot, you will need to enter a Direct 5 combination and get all five numbers correct. There is a guaranteed jackpot of at least 16,000 USD (100,000 Ghanaian Cedi). In the event of no winner for the particular drawing, the sum will roll over towards the next one. For the other prizes, there is a multiplier applied to the sum you’ve bet on your ticket. Do you want to learn how to play Ghana Lotto? Here are the main steps you’ll have to undertake for a chance to access this splendid opportunity: That’s it. The rest is up to the 24Lottos team. You’ll simply need to monitor Ghana Lotto results to find out if you’ve won anything. A reputable Ghana Lotto vendor like 24Lottos will make it easy for you to claim your prize and withdraw. Smaller sums that you’ve won from this lottery (and from other international games) will be credited directly to your account. When this happens, you can choose to withdraw or use the money to buy additional lotto tickets. Keep in mind that the rules for claiming larger sums of money are going to be different. You’ll need to appear in person and make a claim. If you win a large amount, a representative of the vendor will usually get in touch with you to clarify the details.