The Executive Secretary, Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, Teju Abisoye, has commended Google for its new initiative aimed at empowering 5,000 Small and mid-size enterprises (SMEs) and entrepreneurs across Africa. Google stated that 5,000 SMEs and entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa would be receiving free training to help their businesses thrive via the newly launched Hustle Academy. The programme is open to businesses that have been in operation for more than a year, and developed a business strategy, as well as, defined their product or service offering, and are aiming to grow. They must also have made a profit in the previous 12 months or be within one to three months of breaking even. The academy is a boot camp-style training programme designed to help entrepreneurs and small business owners’ position their businesses for investment opportunities and building viable models for the future. It also provides access to a global network of mentors and alumni. Abisoye described the academy as a laudable initiative that will help improve business prospects and also create the impact desired at the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund. Business owners will undergo five days of hands-on training and receive 3000 hours of training on fundamental aspects of business to help them navigate the challenges faced by SMEs in Africa. The training curriculum includes, strategic growth sessions including business growth strategy, building digital marketing roadmaps, discovering and evaluating funding routes and how to pitch for success among other topics. Head of Brand and Reputation, sub-Saharan Africa, Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, said: “SMEs are the engine that drives growth for any economy. In Africa, SMEs account for around 80 per cent of jobs and are a significant source of economic growth. To grow the economy and increase employment, it is crucial that small businesses have access to the right tools, training and funding to scale up. “The Hustle Academy’s mission is to assist entrepreneurs navigate the business challenges they face by providing them with the appropriate tools and knowledge. “A core intent of the Academy is to support SMBs with the right skills, resources and access to thrive and grow.” “Our hope is that through the Hustle Academy training this year, we will be able to assist 5,000 SMEs and entrepreneurs across Africa take their business to the next level and find ways to scale our efforts to help even more businesses going forward,” Aderemi-Makinde said.