JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, 10th February 2022 -/African Media Agency(AMA)/- As our fragile planet experiences unprecedented man-made changes to its climate, organisations are being challenged to move onto a more sustainable path in 2022. A 2021 report by the IPCC called a ‘code red for humanity‘ in light of the sweeping changes to our natural environment that will have as-yet undetermined – but almost certainly severely adverse – effects on humankind’s way of life. According to Tracy Bolton, Chief Operating Officer at SAP Africa, organisations across Africa will have to take bold steps to limit harmful activities and mitigate the impact of a changing climate. “Modern businesses have to be both profitable and sustainable, and put people, the planet and profit on equal footing,” says Bolton. “Sustainability is a team sport, though. A vibrant ecosystem of likeminded innovators and business leaders is the best approach to achieving sustainability goals.” Sustainability high on corporate agenda A Harvard Business Review study of more than 300 directors in 43 countries found that three-quarters of respondents recognise climate change and sustainability as very important to their organisations’ strategic success. SAP recently announced that it is accelerating its global sustainability targets by striving to achieve net-zero emissions across its value chain by 2030, a full two decades ahead of the original 2050 target. In addition, the company has enhanced its role as an enabler of sustainability by introducing a new suite of technology tools and best practices that can help companies accelerate their sustainability efforts. “There is no question that an accelerated drive toward sustainability will have a dramatic positive impact on people and the planet,” says Bolton. “Viewing sustainability as an added cost to business is incorrect. It is a competitive advantage and one of the greatest economic opportunities of our time. However, many business leaders simply don’t know where to start on their journey toward a more sustainable path.” Tips for building sustainable organisations Bolton provides tips to African organisations for embedding sustainability in their operations. Step 1: Plan: “You first need to decide what your sustainability strategy is,” says Bolton. “For some it is enough to simply do the bare minimum in order to remain compliant. Other organisations may want to embed sustainability in their processes to create efficiency and drive profitability. A growing number of organisations, however, use sustainability as a driving force to innovate and build desirability with eco-conscious consumers who are happy to pay more for a product or service if it is truly environmentally-friendly.” Step 2: Benchmark: “It’s important to get a baseline knowledge of your organisation’s current level of sustainability. Use analytics to generate insights from your primary and secondary data relating to your ESG efforts, especially as they relate to Governance, Planet & Climate Change, People and Prosperity.” Step 3: Focus: Once organisations know their current state, it is vital they choose where to focus their sustainability efforts to gain maximum benefit. “Decide where you want to focus and implement real-time tracking of your progress against your success metrics. This will enable effective decision-making throughout your sustainability journey.” Step 4: Tell: When organisations change their operations and processes to become more sustainable, it can have a direct impact on their employees, partners and suppliers. “Ensure you communicate regularly and transparently with everyone in your organisation as well your partners and suppliers to ensure everyone across your supply chain is on board.” Distributed by African Media Agency (AMA) on behalf of SAP Africa. Visit the SAP News Center. Follow SAP on Twitter at @SAPNews. About SAP SAP’s strategy is to help every business run as an intelligent enterprise. As a market leader in enterprise application software, we help companies of all sizes and in all industries run at their best: SAP customers generate 87% of total global commerce. Our machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), and advanced analytics technologies help turn customers’ businesses into intelligent enterprises. SAP helps give people and organizations deep business insight and fosters collaboration that helps them stay ahead of their competition. We simplify technology for companies so they can consume our software the way they want – without disruption. Our end-to-end suite of applications and services enables business and public customers across 25 industries globally to operate profitably, adapt continuously, and make a difference. With a global network of customers, partners, employees, and thought leaders, SAP helps the world run better and improve people’s lives. For more information, visit www.sap.com. Any statements contained in this document that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “should” and “will” and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP’s future financial results are discussed more fully in SAP’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including SAP’s most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.© 2021 SAP SE. All rights reserved.SAP and other SAP products and services mentioned herein as well as their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of SAP SE in Germany and other countries. Please see https://www.sap.com/copyright for additional trademark information and notices. Note to editors: To preview and download broadcast-standard stock footage and press photos digitally, please visit www.sap.com/photos. On this platform, you can find high resolution material for your media channels. To view video stories on diverse topics, visit www.sap-tv.com. From this site, you can embed videos into your own Web pages, share video via email links, and subscribe to RSS feeds from SAP TV. For customers interested in learning more about SAP products: Global Customer Center: +49 180 534-34-24 United States Only: 1 (800) 872-1SAP (1-800-872-1727) For more information, press only: Delia Sieff, SAP Africa, +27 (11) 235 6000, delia.sieff@sap.com The post Sustainability as a team sport: how to build a sustainable business in 2022 appeared first on African Media Agency.