The Nigeria Chess Federation (NCF) has announced the appointment of distinguished sports ambassadors as members of its working committee. NCF Secretary General, Akinyele Oladapo, in a statement, said the appointment of the members of 11 standing committee was part of the resolutions of its board recently, adding, “The official inauguration will hold during a zoom meeting on February 7 headed by NCF President, DIG Sani Mohammed. According to the statement, the Media and Publicity Committee has Odion Aikhoje as chairman with Femi Solaja, Kunle Kasumu, Samson Ofubu, Jide Ogunsanwo, Ebenezer Bajela, John Fawole Oyeyemi, Babatunde Ogunsiku, and Awope Adebisi as members. In the Finance/Marketing Brand are Adeyinka Adewole (Chairman), Arch. Nnamdi Nwoye (Vice Chairman), Lolomari George, Jonathan Odega, Ademola Alli, Magnus Ekpiken, Austin Apemiye, Robert Asibor, Mathew Onoba, Joseph Kyosu, Femi Akinnirun, Daniel Atiogbe and Ezenna Lovejoy. Technical Committee has as members Dr. Bode Durotoye (chairman), Eugene Akhiwu (vice chairman), Odion Aihkoje, Kola Rex, Austin Apemiye, Jimson Odufuye, Tunde Sawyer and Lekan Adeyemi. In the Events Committee are Ademola Alli (chairman), Martins Amabipi (vicer chairman), Danlami Abubakar, CP Kabiru Ibrahim (rtd), Dr. Niyi Oriolowo, Rotimi Dasaolu, David Ozoadibe, ACP Ofili Felix and Adeyinka Adewole. The Medical and Anti-doping committee has Dr. Mc Donald (chairman), Prof. Bewaji (vice chairman), Dr. Olomola, Dr. Nsisong, Dr. Odum Martin, Funke Kajuni, Stanley, Dr. Apollo, Lawal Yusuf Hunkuyi and Dr. Owen Maduka, while members of the Archives, Records/Awards Committee are Kunle Kasumu (chairman), Segun Akinbiyi (vice chairman), Jide Ogunsanwo, Fashina Olufemi, David Erhabor, Odion Aikhoje, General A. A. Oyelade, Adebayo Adegboyega, Martins Amabipi, DSP Job Atabor and Olawale Oyeleye. Lekan Adeyemi is chairman of Competitions Committee with Chief Odega as his vice. Other members of the committee are Dr. Donald, Prof. Oniye, Peter Agbonkhese, Rachael Dappa, and Iredele Ogunbayo. In the Ethics and Disciplinary Committee are Prof Ogunade (chairman), Engr. Bawa Mohammed (vice), Demola Oyebanji, Prof Bewaji, Eugene Akhiwu, M.A.O. Akitoye and Tayo Amisu, while the Special Projects has Bawa Mohammed as chairman and Austin Apemiye as the vice chairman. Other members of the committee are Eugene Akhiwu, Richmier Ogbu, Thomas Oparaugo, Tunde Onakoya, Rachael Dappa and M.A.O. Akitoye. The Membership and Welfare Committee comprises Eugene Akhiwu (chairman), M.A.O. Akitoye (vice chairman), Adeyinka Adewole, Martins Amabipi and Rosemary Amadasun, while Online Committee has Lolomari George as chairman, Obinna Ogbonnaya (vice chairman) and Samson Ofubu, Kenny Olajide, Ojeleye Olawale, Paul Boyo, as well as Oluwadurotimi Lapite as members.