In a bid to promote safety, security and well-being on its site, short-form mobile video platform, TikTok, has announced updates to its community guidelines to further support the well-being of users and the integrity of the platform.
     
The platform’s public policy and government relations director, Fortune Mgwili-Sibanda, said transparency is important to them and these updates would expand upon the types of behaviour and content the platform would remove or make ineligible for recommendation in the ‘For You’ feed. 
   
He added that the firm routinely strengthens its safeguards so that they can continue to bring people together to create, connect, and enjoy community-powered entertainment long-term.  According to Mgwili-Sibanda, some of the main updates that would be implemented over the next few weeks include, strengthening its dangerous acts and challenges policy to help prevent such content – including suicide hoaxes – from spreading on the platform; broadening the approach to eating disorders in which the platform will start to also remove the promotion of disordered eating. 
   
TikTok said it is making this change in consultation with eating disorders experts, researchers, and physicians, as it understands that people can struggle with unhealthy eating patterns and behaviour without having an eating disorder diagnosis.
     
Others are adding clarity on the types of hateful ideologies prohibited on the platform, including deadnaming, misgendering, misogyny as well as content that supports or promotes conversion therapy programs; expanding policy to protect the security, integrity, availability, and reliability of the platform including prohibiting unauthorised access to the app as well as its content, accounts, systems or data and prohibiting the use of the app to perpetrate criminal activity. 
   
“In addition to educating the community on ways to spot, avoid and report suspicious activity, TikTok is opening a state-of-the-art cyber incident monitoring and investigative response centers in Washington DC, Dublin, and Singapore this year and our Fusion Center operations enable follow-the-sun threat monitoring and intelligence gathering, as we continue working with industry-leading experts to test and enhance our defenses.  To hold itself accountable to its community, NGOs, and others, TikTok releases community guidelines and enforcement reports quarterly. The most recent report published shows that over 91 million violative videos were removed during Q3 2021, which is around 1% of all videos uploaded. Of those videos, 95% were removed before a user reported it, 88% before the video received any views, and 93% within 24 hours of being posted. TikTok continues to expand its system that detects and removes certain categories of violations at upload – including adult nudity and sexual activities, minor safety and illegal activities and regulated goods. 