All Progressives Congress (APC) North-Central Progressive Ambassadors have faulted the notion held in certain quarters that President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the next national chairman of the party. The group in a statement by Mr. Anthony Kente maintained that those behind such stories were doing so to undermine the party ahead of the 2023 general election. Warning against the hijack of the party by those he described as unseen enemies within, the group said it was untrue that President Buhari has endorsed any aspirant as a consensus candidate for the position. The group called on the President to ensure that the process leading to the emergence of the next national chairman of the APC would be fair. The group pointed accusing fingers at APC governors from the Northwest geopolitical zone, saying they were perpetrating the act to score their political goals. The group further urged the President to allow the input of all stakeholders from the North Central zone of the party where the seat is zoned to on the choice of the chairman of the party. The group said: “President Muhammadu Buhari has neither endorsed nor named any aspirant within APC stream as the party’s consensus candidate ahead of March 26, 2022, national convention. “President Buhari only directed the APC governors during his re-scheduled meeting at the presidential villa on Tuesday to specifically consult all party stakeholders including those aspiring for the national chairmanship position in search of credible, well rounded and experienced technocrat that will be duly accepted to all party members. “Anybody who is peddling the falsehood about any formal endorsement about a particular aspirant in the APC national chairmanship race as the chosen consensus candidate is peddling rumours or falsehood, that is having capacity to mislead and offer wrong impression to the party membership profile and stakeholders. “Those unfolding political developments are coming on the heels of desperate attempts being pushed forward by some Northwest governors who for reasons of seeking to consolidate their individual and collective interest aggregation as likely or possible presidential running mates to whoever eventually emerges as the APC presidential flag bearer in the February 18th 2023 polls. “Those Northwest governors, the sources further explained, are very eager to impose a stooge that they can manipulate as the eventual consensus chairman of the party to do their bidding ahead of 2023 presidential elections. “This explained why they are tactically predisposed to trying to use the media, both print and electronic, to sway the public as well as political opinion in making it look as if President Buhari has endorsed Senator Abdullahi Adamu as consensus candidate for APC chairmanship race. “These people do not mean well for the growth and stability of the party but are only out to destroy whatever goodwill that the APC generated over the last seven and a half years of being in power at the centre.”