The chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrashed Bawa, has appealed to corps members to intensify their efforts in public sensitisation on the dangers of corruption. Speaking during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Youth Service Corps in Abuja, Bawa stressed that the activities of fraudsters give the country a negative image. The anti-corruption boss added that part of the mandate of the commission is to investigate and prosecute corrupt practices, commended the NYSC/EFCC Anti-Corruption CDS groups on their sensitisation activities towards stemming the tide of corruption in the country. “Corps Members are agents of enlightenment. l want to assure you that our collaboration will address fraudulent acts as we continue to sensitise members of the public on the dangers of corruption,” Bawa said. The EFCC boss also praised the NYSC Corps doctors and other paramedics for offering medical services to its staff and detainees across the country, urging them to continue in that positive stead. He stressed the commission’s readiness to lend support to the actualisation of NYSC Trust Fund, as it would address infrastructural deficits in the Scheme, and also offer start up capitals to Corps Members as they exit service. NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim stressed the need to ensure a collaborative effort in fighting corruption in the country to make it more penetrating. He said the Scheme would continue to enlighten Nigerians on the dangers of corruption by using Corps Members who are burning with so much patriotic zeal. The Director-General disclosed that the nationwide One Million Man NYSC/EFCC Anti-Corruption roadwalk that was conducted sometimes ago yielded positive results in crime reduction, and requested that it be made a yearly to sensitize the public on the ills of corruption. Ibrahim solicited the support of EFCC in arresting online scammers trying to defraud unsuspecting Prospective Corps Members and other members of the public. “All of us have to fight corruption for the sake of our country and I can assure you that the NYSC will play its part as enshrined in the MoU,” he added.