Former Director-General of the Progressives Governor’s Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, has been accused of being a spy of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the All Progressive Congress (APC). Oguwike Nwachukwu, Media Adviser to Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State, said in a statement that “except he (Lukman) retraces his steps by committing whole-heartedly to the supremacy of the Party encapsulated in the power invested in the leadership, it would be difficult for him to deny he is not a mole in APC.” According to Uzodimma’s spokesman, the ex PGF boss’s recent resignation was a ploy to “avoid a pending sack over unbecoming demeanour.” He added, “It is obvious that Lukman had been engaged by enemies of democracy to deliberately discredit respected APC Governors and Leaders like Uzodimma just because their selfish political permutations are not working out.” He said, “Lukman, has continued to run his mouth in ways that suggest that his sojourn in the midst of progressive politicians in APC was nothing but a design to spy on the Party in the interest of his co-conspirators in the opposition PDP. “On Monday, February 21, Lukman was credited by a section of media to have accused some respected APC Leaders, including Governors, of holding the Party captive and working with Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) against the February 26 Convention that has been postponed to March 26. “Ordinarily, we would have ignored Lukman if he did not have the misfortune of bringing the name of Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State into the picture of his thoughtless and careless statement.” Nwachukwu said, “Even when Governor Uzodimma, barely two weeks ago, came out to distance himself from any Presidential contest, Lukman would deliberately overlook that to make insinuations that were borne out of hatred for Governor Uzodimma due to the latter’s rising profile in APC and the trust his colleagues have reposed on him because of his many years of experience in politics and sincerity of purpose. “He was, therefore, in good stead, issuing controversial statements that were not only antagonistic to the leadership of the Party he pretends to be part of but quite anti-thetical to the views of his bosses. “Few weeks out of office, Lukman is behaving true to type – a mole planted amidst the APC top echelon to spy on them.” 