The Olubadan-designate, Dr. Lekan Balogun, yesterday, assured the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) that the confidence reposed in him would not be abused and he won’t let the people down. Olubadan palace  The new Olubadan, who acknowledged the activities of CCII which he described as dynamic and progressive, praised their doggedness, patriotism and sacrifice for the good of Ibadanland, stressing that he had no choice but to give them all the necessary support. Earlier, the President-General of CCII had on behalf of the council told the Olubadan-designate that the purpose of the visit was to formally congratulate him on the ratification of his appointment as the new Olubadan by Governor Seyi Makinde, the latter of which was received last Monday. Adeaga recalled the controversy that ensued immediately after the demise of Oba Saliu Adetunji over his successor. He expressed happiness that by the grace of God, the controversy had become history. The CCII boss also said his council played its role to ensure that the controversy did not get out of hand. He praised Balogun for the opportunity given them to function, noting that without the support and approval of the monarch, it would have been difficult to make any intervention. Alluding to the intellectual prowess of the new Olubadan, Adeaga said: “Kabiyesi, your exposure in the areas of academic, political, business and social interaction has made our task easier. At CCII, we are to ensure that Ibadan dignity is at all-time preserved and to now have a man of dignity and candour on the throne, our job becomes very easy. “We are to function based on your directive. When you want us in the front, we will be there, and if it is at the back that you want us, we are ready. We will be working based on your authority and directive and we are confident of your leadership as a man of many parts and with robust and rich credentials”, he added. Adeaga gave the new Olubadan an update on the new Ibadan Palace at Oke-Are and said it would gladden the hearts of his executive members if Oba Balogun becomes its first occupant. He acknowledged Ibadan unique style where each monarch maintains private palaces but stressed the need for an Ibadan Palace, the purpose of which he said the ongoing one at Oke-Are would serve.