The Police Service Commission (PSC) has ordered fresh investigation and deferred decision on the case involving suspended Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) Commander, DCP Abba Kyari. Spokesman of the commission, Ikechukwu Ani, said: “Kyari had earlier been indicted by a report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States and was also investigated by a special panel set up by the Inspector General of Police. “The report had earlier been forwarded to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for legal advice by the Inspector General of Police. “The commission also directed that further necessary investigation should take half the time it took the police to conduct the original investigation and that the investigation should be carried out by a different panel. “The commission took the decision at the continuation of its14th plenary meeting which ended in Abuja on Thursday, February 11, 2022 and which was chaired by Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police and Chairman of the commission” According to the spokesman, the commission at the plenary meeting also considered 20 pending disciplinary matters and five appeals and petitions from the IGP and aggrieved serving and ex-police officers. It also considered five promotion appeals. Ani said the commission also reaffirmed its earlier decision to exonerate SP Shaaba Adamu Gboyako, a former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to former Inspector General of Police taken at its I9th plenary meeting of September 28 and 29, 2020. “The meeting was mindful of the need to safeguard its corporate image and defend its institutional integrity. It directed the IGP to implement its decision as it affects the officer without delay. “The commission also directed that the judgment of a Kano High Court in an application for enforcement of the fundamental right to life brought by the father of one Abdulkadir Nasiru (now deceased) be forwarded to the IGP for implementation of the orders of the court. The appellant was seeking justice for the alleged torture of his son to death by Police.” The appeal for accelerated/notional promotion based on merit from CSP Ita Lazarus Udom was also considered and approved by the plenary. The commission approved the adjustments of promotion dates of the officer from the rank of Superintendent of Police to a Deputy Commissioner of Police in line with his course mates. “The commission also considered and promoted 89 of its staff with a promise to ensure that staff promotion will continue to receive priority attention while they should ensure they, at all times, put in their best.” Ani said. 