Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a stalwart of All Progressives Congress in the state, Tonye Princewill, have disagreed over the state government’s fight against illegal refining. PDP refuted an earlier statement by Princewill that the war against  ‘Kpofire ‘ was meant to woo operators to the party and a deliberate effort to end the soot menace, but Princewill maintained that in as much as the state government was tough on illegal refining, it should also be tough on its causes. A statement signed by the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Tambari Sydney Gbara, said the war against illegal bunkering (Kpofire) does not need any political coloration, stressing that the intention of government was to ensure the well-being of the people. Gbara described Princewill as an attention seeker playing to the gallery and challenged him to be sincere to and make public the names of those he claimed were wooed by the present administration to join the PDP or face prosecution. But in a swift response yesterday, Princewill said the party’s response to his sincere position and genuine advice did not depict true leadership. The APC chief explained that he had commended the governor for his stance against illegal refining but advised him to address the root causes of illegal refining and to desist from playing politics with it. He said, he was not sure which of the salient points he raised that irked the governing party but stated: “Whenever one cannot recognise advice, he needs leadership glasses.” He said: “ We all woke up to the black soot this morning, including the governor and there is still no end in sight. A lot of motion, no movement. Let me repeat my advice, at the risk of yet another press release. “Be tough on illegal refining, but also be tough on the causes of the illegal refining, of which number one is the lack of jobs for the youth” “People cannot stand in water and soap will enter their eyes. How many new industries have we brought in, how many businesses? Is it better to be loyal to jeeps and give them flyovers or be loyal to our many youths and women and give them a means of livelihood? These are the questions. I suggest we do all of the above and more, but give priority to the women and youths and spread development.”