Rivers United defeated Nasarawa United 2-1 to extend their lead at the top by four points in a hard-fought Match day 15 encounter, but Coach Stanley Eguma played down talks of the club winning the title. Eguma reiterated that it is still early in the season to start making projections of title success and asserted that the league is a marathon race. “Like I have always said, the league is a marathon race so you keep perfecting until you get your result at the end of the season,” he said. “It’s too early to jump into conclusion that this could be our season as it’s still very early,” added Eguma. On the opposition mounted by Nasarawa United, Eguma described the game as difficult, a measure of his respect for the Solid Miners. “It was a very good game for us especially in the first half when we got two goals and it was expected that we consolidate in the second but Nasarawa gave a good account of themselves and I give them kudos. “I commend their efforts, they were fired up after their goal and maybe we were fatigued but we had character that saw us through, otherwise, it would have been a different ball game”, he admitted. Eguma also spoke on the quality of his team and the tasks ahead of them in the course of the season. “I still don’t have a perfect team yet and we are working hard to improve in every department in the team despite the results achieved so far”, he told www.npfl.ng. Eguma is already looking ahead to the next fixture, which is a visit to Kano Pillars and said they would play to get a result. “Pillars will be a very big game, anytime any day. Our results so far are also pointers that the teams will be ready for us so we have to prepare very well to come up with a good strategy to get a result in Kaduna,” he concluded. At the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium yesterday, first half goals from Chijioke Akuneto and Ishaq Rafiu, the NPFL leading scorer was halved by Michael Tochukwu in the second half. Tochukwu hit a thunderous free kick that was parried into the net by goalkeeper Sochima Victor. After the win, Rivers United kept their place at the top and will be on the road to Kaduna to take on Kano Pillars.