• Lauds Makinde, council members
• Tinubu congratulates Balogun on appointment as monarch Olubadan palace  Balogun gave the assurance while fielding questions from journalists in his Alarere residence during his first reaction to the final approval given to his nomination by Governor Seyi Makinde on Monday. The newly-appointed monarch, while reacting to his appointment, which became formal on Monday with the governor’s assent, welcomed it and commended Makinde and members of the Olubadan-in-Council for their unwavering support. He said: “With the kind of support and enthusiasm expressed by my colleagues in the Olubadan-in-Council  over my emergence and the positive disposition of the governor, I have no choice but to give Ibadan my best and with God on my side, I will be up and doing towards leaving Ibadan better than I am meeting it.” However, the new Olubadan, who emerged from Aliiwo Dynasty, said he would adopt Ali Okunmade II as a suffix to his full name, Dr. Moshood Olalekan Ishola Balogun Aliiwo. MEANWHILE, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has congratulated the Otun-Olubadan of Ibadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, over his appointment as the new Olubadan of Ibadanland and elevation to the zenith of leadership institution in the land. Tinubu, expressed hope that the new monarch would deploy his tremendous skills and rich understanding of traditional institutions to promote peace and stability in Ibadanland, Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole. In a statement, yesterday, by his Media Office in Lagos, signed by Mr. Tunde Rahman, the APC national leader said: “Hearty congratulations to the new Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, over his appointment and elevation to the zenith of the traditional institution in Ibadanland. “The beauty of the rich and highly-respected traditional hierarchical leadership structure of Ibadanland has again affirmed itself.” “As a former senator and the Otun-Olubadan until this new appointment, you have truly earned your stripes. “Your high leadership qualities, particularly your tremendous skills, experience, knowledge and deep understanding of traditional institutions are worthy of note. “As the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland, I hope and pray that you would deploy these qualities to promote peace, unity and stability not only in Ibadanland, Oyo State and Yorubaland but also across the country. “I congratulate you. I wish you a long, eventful and successful reign. May your reign usher in peace and development in Ibadanland.”