Lagos chapter backs Diji for group’s next president Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, accused governors and senators of the South East zone of failure to end the sit-at-home order because of their political interest warning them not to seek political offices during 2023 general election if they fail to end the exercise. It also urged the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to apologise and ask for forgiveness from Ndigbo for their mistakes and naughtiness for the sit-at-home order without consulting Igbo leaders, noting that the exercise had destroyed the socio-economic activities in the region. In a statement issued in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State by its Secretary General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, said  no Igbo governor or senator deserved to seek reelection in 2023, if they lacked the courage and capacity to  end activities that had ridiculed the South East. He called on governors of the South East to proffer lasting solutions to the cessation of IPOB’s sit-at-home directive since they now blame hoodlums for hijacking the directive, adding that it had become obvious that criminals have taken advantage of IPOB’s miscalculations to unleash terror on Ndigbo. MEANWHILE, the Anioma indigenes of Delta State resident in Lagos have endorsed the Isama of Onicha Ugbo, Chief Michael Diji, as the presidential candidate for the state chapter of the apex Igbo socio-cultural group. They said it is the turn of the Igbo indigenes of Delta State to produce the next Ohanaeze leader, and as such, the stakeholders from the Igbo speaking communities have agreed that Diji, was most suited for the position. Ohanaeze comprises all Igbo speaking people of Anambra, Imo, Abia, Ebonyi, Delta, Rivers and Enugu states. Leader of the Igbo speaking communities of Delta State recognised by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Chuks Chukwujindu Smith, said: “We the Anioma people of Delta State have unanimously endorsed Diji as our authentic candidate for President of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Lagos State.” He explained that Njiko Ndi Anioma remained the only socio-cultural organisation of Igbo of Delta State stock affiliated to and recognised by Ohanaeze national body and following due process, it had adopted Diji, as the best candidate that would guarantee quality leadership. Diji, an expert in the finance, leasing and logistics sectors, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Corporate Accountants of West Africa and holds an MBA in Banking & Finance from the Lagos State University (LASU). He also has a doctorate degree in Financial Management and Corporate Governance from the European American University, a fellow of Institute of Management Consultants of Nigeria and member, Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria, among others.