Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Mrs. Bisi Fayemi, has implored the people of the state to patronise locally-made fabrics to strengthen the local economy and increase the state’s Gross Domestic Products (GDP). She also urged the citizens to pay adequate attention to the development and sustenance of their cultural heritage, saying the move would further prevent them from going into extinction. The governor’s wife stated this yesterday in Ado-Ekiti during a programme organised by a non-governmental organisation. The Ekiti State First Lady listed ways through which the youths could be moulded to become good citizens to include proper guidance, mentoring and inculcating of virtues, such as honesty, forthrightness and absolute moral integrity in them. She expressed joy over the programme and commended indigenes over what she called the developmental strides over the last few years. The wife of the governor also reiterated her readiness to always participate in any activity aimed at bringing more development to the state. She said: “Let me commend the organisers of this event, which has nothing to do with politics, but a follow-up to the entrepreneurship workshop organised by Ekiti State Government in 2019. “I use this occasion to reiterate the support of Ekiti State Government to the success of this programme and we will always be part of the numerous programmes that are geared towards bringing more developments to Ekiti State. “I urge the people to continue patronising the local Aso-Oke weavers to boost the capacities of the local producers and enhance their livelihoods.” In her remarks, the Proprietress of the Treasure Stitches, Mrs. Adeola Abiola, said the programme, which has no political undertone, was organised to collaborate with existing institutions and public-spirited individuals to attract and engender sustainable development of Ekiti State. She said the programme was organised for an eye-opener to many and door of employment opportunities and source of wealth to, as many that are passionate about the fashion industry in Ekiti State and beyond. The highpoint of the programme, held at the Adetiloye Hall, Ado-Ekiti, was the official unveiling and of the runway exhibition of clothes made from Aso-Oke fabric, by the wife of the Governor.