Some Yoruba leaders, including traditional rulers, yesterday, began a move to resolve the conflict between the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and former governor of Osun State and Minister for Interior, Rauf Aregbesola.
 
Tinubu, who was governor of Lagos from 1999 to 2003 and Aregbesola who, served under him as Commissioner for Works before going to Osun State to become governor in 2010, has been at loggerheads over the Osun State governorship election scheduled to hold on July 16 2022.  “The thinking of the worried monarchs is that the mudslinging approach the two political leaders have adopted would reduce the pride of Yoruba race among other ethnic nationalities. They wonder what’s the life span of the two fighters for them to destroy the integrity of their race and coming generations because of political interest,” the source said.  “Since that day, there have been targeted efforts to decimate Aregbesola both in Lagos and Osun State, which of course is forcing the minister to fight back now,” the source said.
 
It was gathered that to further prevent any form of crisis among personalities eying the presidency in Yoruba land, the traditional rulers and other Yoruba leaders may still approach the likes of Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, who is still interested in succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Tinubu. Such invitation is likely to be extended to the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola. The aim is to appeal for a consensus.  Secretary-General, Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), Dr. Kunle Olajide said he had been extremely worried over the type of news he read concerning Tinubu and Aregbesola in the last couple of weeks. “It is not doing the Yoruba nation any proud both at home and abroad. The two of them could be described as foremost Yoruba political leaders for now. To start washing their dirty linens in the public is a great disservice to Yoruba people. I appeal to them to caution their supporters while the elders in Yoruba land will intervene quietly to resolve their differences.” President of Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum, Akin Malaolu, said it was necessary for the traditional rulers, especially the Ooni of Ife, Alaafin of Oyo, Awujale of Ijebu land, Alake of Egba land, and others to resolve the crisis. “The traditional rulers should not fold their arms and allow the interests of two political gladiators to destroys the aspirations of millions of other subjects of theirs.”