Ariston, the leading and most international brand of Ariston Group and Italia Seria A giant, Juventus FC, have joined forces in Africa, signing a regional partnership from February 2022. Ariston Group is one of the worldwide leaders in the thermal comfort industry. This is the third step of a successful collaboration among Ariston and Juventus that started already in China and Indonesia in 2021. With this regional partnership, the two Italian brands join their ambitions of growth and development assuring high performances, thanks to their common attitude. Tagged ‘Challenges Deserve Champions’ the partnership summarises their shared mindset. Challenge is a value deeply rooted in the culture of both Ariston and Juventus. While Ariston seeks success with determination, aspiring to ensure comfort, thanks to its high quality of products, solutions, pre-and after-sales support, Juventus always fights to achieve unbelievable performances with the right skills, passion, enthusiasm, and attitude – striving to top levels. During the presentation event, which was aired from Allianz Stadium, Juventus players Kean, Rabiot, Szczesny, and Juventus Legend Fabrizio Ravanelli, congratulated Ariston and the club for the partnership. Chief Executive Officer of Ariston Group, Laurent Jacquemin, said: “I am thrilled to announce the new step of this partnership today, rooted in Italian excellence and with a global vision and reach, to win the great challenges of the African markets. Our commitment in Africa is paramount, with over thousands of distributors and partners and a broad range of products, including Electric, Gas, Solar water heaters, and boilers, which makes us today among the leaders in the territory. Teaming up with Juventus in Africa further reinforces our position”. Also speaking, Vice President of MEAR region, Emanuele Stano said: “Being the preferred water heating brand for African families and professionals is our mission, Ariston Group is a reliable brand that stands as a specialist in the market with high-quality, safe, easy to use and install products, as well as services and after-sales support in several countries. Having a solution for any consumer need is very important for us”. On his part, Giorgio Ricci, Juventus’ Chief Revenue Officer said: “Africa, with over 15 million followers, represents for Juventus an area of key strategic importance, and Juventus academies in four countries (Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, and Nigeria) work relentlessly to bring our experience and values to many African soccer enthusiasts. “We are delighted to be working with Ariston, the two brands share an immense synergy of true Italian heritage as well as innovation.” It is really important to grow our interests over the region, to build successful and sustainable stories. There is no doubt the partnership will create numerous sparks in this thriving market along the upcoming seasons. “As in a real football team, where the differences of each player are essential to winning the games, Ariston and Juventus will play together to deliver in Africa engaging initiatives,” Giorgio Ricci stated.