The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has restated the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari administration to sports development in the country, saying, he has innovatively included sports in the National Economic Development Programme. Fashola stated this in Abuja when he received the University of Lagos Local Organising Committee of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA), who came to present the Unity Torch for the games, describing it as “one of the many items of national integration and development.” He noted that the sports festivals, academic games and so many other activities in the nation’s institutions represent efforts to reposition the youth for leadership and other national development roles in the country. The minister declared: “We must never underestimate the role that the events played in defining the character of young men and women who are now leaders of today. “We cannot have youth unemployment if we do what we should do with sports development. These critical games through their camping and travels across the country, help national cohesion, help to break down barriers, even if we worship differently and speak different languages.” He commended the Minister of Sports and Youths Development, Sunday Dare, for securing the approval of the Federal Executive Council to include sports in the National and Economic Programme. Fashola recalled, “It was a tough game to get Council to agree, but finally it is now part of our national and economic programme and that sport is more than just the exercise, but also an economy.” He also saluted the courage of the University of Lagos for taking the Torch of Unity across the country, saying the effort will “bring into the consciousness of those who matter that this is something that all of us must support.” Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, explained that the purpose of the visit was to invite the minister to the NUGA Games 2022, adding that the presentation of the Torch of Unity was to create awareness ahead of the Games. While describing Fashola as a sports lover, the VC recalled his numerous contributions to sports and football development in Lagos State when he was governor of the state, adding that about 75 Nigerian universities would take part in this year’s Games.