Group commends Ugwuanyi on election, condemns attack on commissioner Chieftains of the Enugu State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have declared that the party will record an empathic victory in today’s council election. Speaking at the grand finale of the party’s campaign for the elections at Aji, Enugu-Ezike in Igbo-Eze North council of the state, they commended the development strides of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, assuring that the state under his leadership would continue to record governance and infrastructure development. They appreciated the people for supporting the party since 1999, saying PDP remained the party to beat in the state.
Council chairman and PDP candidate in the election, Prince Ejike Itodo, urged the people to vote for him once more, assuring that he would not disappoint them. He said: “The governor is doing well and we have no reason not to do well, because we look up to him for guidance and direction. We recorded some modest achievements in the council because the governor is a performer.” On his part, representative of Udenu/Igbo-Eze North Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Simon Atigwe, said the party had worked tirelessly to ensure total victory at the polls. MEANWHILE, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has commended Ugwuanyi for good governance since he assumed office about seven years ago. It recommended that Ugwuanyi’s democracy model and his administration’s zeal for council elections, as practiced in Enugu State, should be replicated in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. HURIWA also urged the governments of the South East states to emulate Ugwuanyi’s good governance to end youth restiveness and insecurity in the region. In a statement issued by National Coordinator of HURIWA, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko and National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf, the group said it was gratifying to know that Ugwuanyi, his commissioners and other elected political office holders and the appointees have the greater interest of the state at heart. “We commend the governor on the methodical, systematic and seamless campaigns across the state. The governor and members of his party have been interacting and feeling the pulse, hope and dreams of rural dwellers on the practical concept of evolutionary development directly from the people, a development comparable to advanced democracies,” the statement added.