The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has demanded for more allocation of power from the national grid to guarantee adequate supply to Lagosians. The new Chairman EKEDC, Oritsedere Otubu, made this request during his visitation to some stakeholders in the power industry earlier this week.
 
Accompanied by the company’s MD/CEO, Engr. Adeoye Fadeyibi; EKEDC Director, Ernest Oji; and some members of the management team, the chairman visited the Ministry of Power, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Niger Delta Power Holding Company, and the Nigerian Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO).
 
General Manager, Corporate Communications, EKEDC, Godwin Idemudia, in a statement said that the focus of the new chairman is to improve the exemplary relationship between Eko DisCo and the stakeholders in the power sector as well as consolidate the achievements of his predecessor.  At the Federal Ministry of Power, the Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu aligned with the chairman’s call for more collaboration by the actors in the power sector and stated his confidence in the DisCo based on its track record of performance in NESI, especially on financial remittance. He also explained that the Federal Government is currently working on projects to expand the capacity of the national grid to better serve not only Lagos, but also the entire country. The Director General of BPE, Alex Okoh, also congratulated Otubu on his appointment, emphasising that Eko DisCo occupies a strategic franchise area in the power industry, thus such agenda is significant to the national economy and ensure that the intention of the privatisation process in making the sector more favourable to consumers and investors is achieved. Managing Director, TCN, Engr. Sule Ahmed Abdulaziz, explained the importance of having adequate power supply in Lagos as the state consumes more than 50 per cent of the power generated.
 
He equally assured Otubu that TCN would involve Disco on the several ongoing projects to improve the electricity infrastructure as well as meet the Disco’s request of receiving more allocation from the national grid.