One possible approach to look at the incoming government of Chukwuma Soludo in Anambra State is to look at it as an account of the change of many things in Igboland, Nigeria. This is invariably to say that with the emergence of Soludo as the next Governor of Anambra State on March 17, 2022, things will positively change for the better in Igboland.
 
The failure of leadership, lack of genuine goal and vision for Igbo persons in Nigeria will be corrected through a proper understanding of good governance and development initiatives in Anambra State. Anambra is always gifted in producing great leaders of thought, and Soludo is here to move the people of Anambra to the next level.  Literally, it is under this assumption, that he assures that corruption will stop and there will be an enormous capital industrial development hub in Anambra State under his government. He has opted to serve and develop his people in the mix of the failure of leadership; the miserable performance of past leaders of the people, responsible for the people’s continuous suffering from one generation to another. However, it is in this perspective, that Soludo will organise the people into the altruistic benefits of others, inputting their minds and will together for proper economic development.
 
Thus, it is in the light of the above consideration that the decision of his government will considerably evolve the following goals and objectives: 1. Qualitative education to the youth of the state; 2. To take charge of economic development of the state through better reforms on development agencies to encourage their staff to undertake studies of the political economy of the country and the sectors in which they work; 3. To hold the elected leaders accountable to their stewardship. It is no longer business as usual in the government establishments; 4. Support families and cultures of the Igbo people through development strides and promotion of tourism potential in the state; 5. Support the people of Anambra State in Diasporas, through the exchange of programmes in industries and economic capitalisation of trade for the people of Anambra.  As a specialist in political economy, he is bound to bring out his interest in the capital development of trade and industry in the state, and having the overwhelming majority of votes in the last gubernatorial election; will make many people of the state support him in his government. This is just as it involves human beings, who may react or fail to react to the change that he will bring about in his leadership. This is to say that he has an overwhelming majority of people, who supported him to bring out his financial magic of transforming Anambra, and just the same way he did at the Central Bank of Nigeria in the year 2000 to 2008 in Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration. Today, with his broad selection for the Transition Committee, he has proved to be a worthy person of excellence, with much intent to keep to his election campaign promises.
 
Presumably, it is quintessentially good to know that Soludo constitutes a form of change in his own right of leadership capital in Anambra State. This is true because the general acceptability for his leadership is indeed overwhelming, and they predicted it right that he will make a very good leader in Anambra State. This is how democracy works, and it is a game of numbers. It is utilitarian in nature, seeking for the greatest good, for the greatest number of people in that political community. It is the government of the people, for the people and by the people.  Dr. Asike is a lecturer at the Department of Philosophy, University of Port-Harcourt, Nigeria. 