The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Akwa Ibom Command has warned Nigerians, especially politicians against covering and use of special number plates on their vehicles without authorisation. The Sector Commander in the state, Mr Matthew Olonisaye, gave the warning in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Uyo on Tuesday. He said that it was illegal to cover or use special number plates without proper registration and approval. “It is improper for the citizens to subvert the law, especially with the present security challenges facing the nation.’’ He said anyone that wants to use a special number plate should apply through the State Board of Internal Revenue, According to him, the government will then give the FRSC the directive to produce the special number plate. He appealed to those using special number plates to desist from it as the commission had the mandate to apprehend defaulters. “The condition of issuing a special number plate is very simple. It is compulsory for all vehicles to register their vehicles before putting them on the road. “An applicant for a special number plate is expected to fill and complete a form and pay a prescribed fee and obtain vehicle registration. “He is also expected to obtain an insurance certificate and roadworthiness certificate before coming to obtain a special number plate. “The special number plate is on request, all those using the special number plate should go and do the needful. “It is illegal to go about with special number plate or with cover on your vehicle because if they use such vehicle to commit a crime, there is no way we can trace it. “Those people who refuse to obey, when we see them, we will impound their vehicles and give them prescribed fines. “We appeal to our politicians to cooperate with us to improve on the security challenges facing the nation,’’ Olonisaye said. The sector commander appealed to citizens, especially politicians not to do anything that would aggravate the present security challenges in the country. According to him, a number plate is like a name usd for identification, covering it is like hiding your name, which is improper. “Everyone should be aware that it is illegal to cover your number plate in anyway. “That number plate on the vehicles is like a name given to an individual and the only means of identification of such automobile “So, people should do the needful and register their vehicles properly to avoid abuse,’’ he said. NAN reports that some politicians in Akwa Ibom had in the last two weeks been covering their vehicle number plates with the names of their preferred aspirants.