Download logo The Industrial Court of Uganda has said it needs Shs8 billion to clear 2,600 cases related to labor disputes in the country.  The Court was established under the Labour Disputes (Arbitration and Settlement) Act, 2006 Cap. 224, with the function of arbitrating labor disputes. Appearing before the Committee on Gender, Labour and Social Development to present their budget framework paper for 2022/2023, Sylvia Nabaggala, the Acting Registrar of the Court said that they need an additional Shs8 billion to recruit four judges a Registrar and Deputy Registrar. She added that they also need to recruit members of the panel and staff of the court. The court’s budget estimate is Shs12 billion. According to Nabaggala they also need funds for office space. “The five judges will require five chambers, five court halls and two chambers for the registrars. We also need 10 chambers for the 30 panelists and 42 staff members will require sitting spaces,” Nabaggala said. She also says they need funding to digitalize four court halls and for furnishing the chambers. Nabaggala says if the measures are put in place, the court will have wider coverage, a higher case disposal rate and better delivery of the justice system. She says that currently they have completed only 110 cases, partly heard 678 cases while 2,629 remain pending. Sylvia Nabbagala said that to do away with the backlog, the additional number of judges will help in improving output. “If all judges are recruited, I believe the pending cases will be very minimal because the core mandate of the court is to arbitrate cases.” she said. Reacting to the presentation of the Industrial Court, Workers’ MP, Hon Charles Bakkabulindi said that it is unfortunate that the Court presented their budget framework paper late. He said the court is an international obligation that Government should meet. He says that the Ministry of Gender made its presentation and did not  consider the court. He says it is not acceptable to have pending cases simply because the Industrial Court is not facilitated. “We the workers are suffering; you will see pending cases simply because we do not have judges. It is too late to incorporate it, but who is going to appropriate the billions being requested? We need to save the industrial court,” Bakkabulindi said. Hon Flavia Kabahenda, the Chairperson of the Committee proposed that since construction is a long time venture, money needs to be provided for the recruitment of judges to ensure that the cases are heard. “Can we go for construction before we can conclude pending cases? Is this the priority? What becomes very urgent is the conclusion of these cases; I don’t know whether among them is the medical workers,”Kabahenda said. Kyotera District Woman MP, Hon Fortunate Nantongo said that the court should sensitize Ugandans on their work for people to bring in more cases and concerns like human trafficking. He says many people do not understand the role of the Industrial Court, which makes it difficult to justify the budget. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Parliament of the Republic of Uganda.