Promises to declare intention after February Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has said that he will not turn down the yearnings of Nigerians asking him to run for the seat of President in 2023. The governor, who stated this on Tuesday after his visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock, reiterated that he had always being an advocate for capacity and performance over ethnic or other demographic quality, noting that the country needs a leader with ability to serve irrespective of the region he belongs. The governor added that peradventure the North and South divide becomes a determinant of who becomes the nation’s next leader, fairness and equity must be a watchword as the total addition of years of South’s leadership as compared to the North still puts him in a qualified position to run in 2023. Bello asserted that in answering the question of his credibility to jostle for the number one seat of the nation, people must refer to what was in existence in Kogi State before he took over in 2016. He highlighted areas of security, unity and infrastructural development as some focal areas of his administration’s success, noting that journalists were at liberty to do their independent findings or go through the various web platforms of the state to access the information. The Kogi State governor noted that his administration had surpassed expectations and that in the area of integration, the state is more united than ever before, as ethnic and religious affinity is no longer a clause of concern in the state. Meanwhile, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Onogwu Mohammed, had said that Bello and President Buhari had detailed discussions on politics and security. He said: “The governor, in his usual concern for matters relating to governance and security, was at the Villa for progressive talks with the President. They shared ideas and also reached certain conclusions that I won’t want to disclose for confidentiality purposes.” The governor’s publicist stated that Bello applauded the President’s efforts in curbing insecurity in the North and other parts of the country, adding that the people of the zone will soon start reaping the dividends of those efforts. Mohammed also noted that President Buhari, who wore a calm demeanour, received the governor with joy.” Bello is one of the aspirants seeking to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Earlier in January, no fewer than 600 women groups, drawn from different parts of the country, converged in Abuja for a solidarity walk for him to run for presidential election. 