NPA Supports Traffic Management With New Motorbikes
The newly confirmed Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello-Koko, has assured that his administration will pursue rehabilitation of decaying ports infrastructure. Bello-Koko, in his acceptance address said he would also improve marine services, cut down expenditures and improve revenue among others. He said: “Our vision is to have a fully automated port system that will fit into global port standards. “With my experience as the Executive Director F&A and later Acting Managing Director, I will continue to work with all stakeholders to create an institution that is responsive to the expectations of the government, maritime industry, and the general public. “As we move to complete the Lekki deep seaport, we are open to investments to develop other strategic deep seaports in the country. “While also pursuing rehabilitation of decaying ports infrastructure, improving marine services, cutting down expenditures, improving revenue, and pursuing aggressively, recovery of debts, we will however not relent on our core mandate — trade facilitation; easing gridlock in the ports, and encouraging the full utilization of the Eastern Ports,” he stated.‬ Meanwhile, the NPA boss has also unveiled 24 new motorbikes to strengthen traffic monitoring and enforcement along the access roads to the Lagos Ports Complex and Tin-Can Island Port. As landlord and technical regulator of the port, the NPA boss assured port operators and users that the Authority will continue to deploy innovative measures towards the elimination of all encumbrances preventing free movement of trade along the access roads to the port. Port Manager, Lagos Ports Complex, Mrs. Olufunmilayo Olotu, said the launch of the motorbikes would improve traffic monitoring from Ijora, through Sifax Inland Container Terminal up to Mr. Biggs, linking Apapa to Tin-Can Island Port corridor. According to her, the introduction of motorbike patrols would further enhance safety and security at the nation’s two busiest seaports. Senior Special Assistant to the Lagos State Governor on Central Business Districts (CBDs) and Vice Chairman on Apapa Traffic, Sola Giwa, stated that the Lagos State Government would continue to collaborate with the NPA towards improved travel time within the Apapa corridor. Giwa said that as landlord to the NPA, Lagos State is willing and would continue to partner NPA to eliminate traffic congestion and travel delays being experienced by residents and business owners in Apapa. 