Sport is one of the avenues children from humble backgrounds take in their search for better living. It offers riches and opportunities beyond what only a few other professions can give to poor children. But to be successful in sport, talented youths have several conditions they must fulfill to reap from their natural gifts. Such conditions include being disciplined in and out of the field, careful planning and education, which helps the athlete manage his life, properly. These are what participants at the ongoing Crown Elite Basketball Championship have been getting from some of the country’s retired and successful former basketball internationals, who, since Monday, have been engaging the youths in mentorship and life changing programmes at the National Stadium, Lagos. Crown Elite Basketball Championship is a programme that pits the country’s best teams in a competition where they win prizes for their efforts. But beyond the games on the courts of the indoor sports hall of the stadium, the organisers are engaging the youths from schools drawn from across the state in life changing mentorship programme, which they believe will create better citizens out of the youths. Speaking on the programme’s goals, one of the directors of Crown Elite programme, Louis Edem, said the aim is to help players find life after the game. Edem, an ex international and I.T. professional based in the United States, said the programme is their way of giving back to a society that provided them opportunity to get up in life. “We are always passionate to come back to give because it is all about giving back to basketball by mentoring the young ones and helping players find life after the game. We also have the chance to talk to them on what they can do when they leave the game.” On the mode of the programme, he said “it fun and engaging and gives participants the chance to win various prizes.”
He said the organisers want to set a template others can follow to build better players for the country, adding, “We welcome any type of sponsorship to expand the programme, but before partners come, we will continue with what we are doing.” Edem revealed that on the court, Nigeria’s most decorated teams get the chance to win cash prizes, awards, and an opportunity to participate in an international U.S. basketball tour. Also speaking on the championship, founder and president of Crown Elite Sports, Hanson Oguche, said: “This year’s event is more engaging and energising, with fun-filled spectator events like our dunk and shooting contests, live entertainment, as well as gifts and prizes to thrill every fan in attendance. “We had a mentorship session earlier today, where we taught the kids the rudiments of the game and advised them from our experience. We also had a motivational speaker to talk to them on playing the game and acquiring education.”
 Oguche said the prize money for the winners has been increased, while “fans, will take shots from the centre and also win prizes. “We want to create a culture of basketball in Nigeria. We want to empower the youths and kids because we want basketball to grow to the level of professionalism and become an avenue for making decent living for players in Nigeria. “We hope that Nigeria will become a basketball hub where everybody from Africa and beyond will come to play and earn a living.” Among the participating teams in the Crown Elite Basketball Championship are Ebun Comets, Rivers Hoopers, Kwara Falcons, Lagos Legends, University of Lagos Basketball Club, Lagos Islanders, Dodan Warriors, and Raptors Basketball Club. 