In a bid to spark up a generation of young entrepreneurs on the need to harness their education with basic employability requirements, despite limited job slot in the country, Nafiu Bala Rabiu, Managing director of Balnara Universal Ltd, recently task youth on the need of entrepreneurship drive while speaking a TedXDabai event at Komo Unity Hall, Zuru Kebbi State. Rabiu in his speech disclosed the need for graduate youths to embrace entrepreneurial drive and be street smart to reduce the current unemployment rate. In his remarks, He indicated the need for youths to be conscious and learn the likely needs of labour employers during the recruitment exercise. Rabiu said; For those seeking employment, one thing is similar, the way they put up their CVs. These days, it’s very easy to put up a CV but what stands you out is what value you are adding to the establishment you seek employment from. “What I watch out for in CV E-mails is how you can prove to me that despite your intimidating resume, you can add value. As an employer of labour, value comes first and if you are recruiting with over five thousand CVs, you look for the one with something quite different and striking. The ones with a professional background, years of experience, value-added from the previous place of work, Knowledge added apart from a first degree or Masters like a special computer course or a special course like ICAN, NIPR, NIM.” and a whole lot”. In his speech he also made a clarion call to parents who decides career path for their children. Rabiu posited; Parents play a pivotal role in the success story of their children. “Parents are molders of what a child becomes in life. I want to beg our parents to allow our children to follow and choose their career paths. Gone are the days where parents force a career path for their children. We live in a different world, where passion and creativity can change the fortune of a family. Education lays a solid foundation. I will encourage parents to ensure that their children are taught the rudiments of entrepreneurship. It’s quite easy mixing both and at a time where there are no white-collar jobs, entrepreneurship will thrive excellently. Infusing quality education makes it quite an easy jump at any time he concluded.