Cross River State and Zipline, a global leader in instant logistics, have commenced construction of a distribution hub to enable take-off of medical drone deliveries across the state. Recall, the state government and Zipline, recently signed an agreement for on-demand drone delivery of medical supplies to health facilities across the state. At a ceremony to flag off construction at the site, situated at Ogoja, Local Council of Cross River, the state’s Commissioner of Health, Dr. Betta Edu said it marked a milestone in improving healthcare delivery across the state. “Improved and timely access to healthcare is a cardinal objective of the state government. Our partnership with Zipline, underscores this,” she said. The Commissioner of Health, who lauded the partnership, said: “The partnership with Zipline, would further ensure even distribution of medical commodities to health facilities across the state and we look forward to the earnest completion of the project.” Special Advisor to the Governor on Health, Dr. David Ushie said, “Zipline, through its revolutionary medical drone delivery service, has a track record in removing barriers militating against access to healthcare, especially in hard-to-reach areas, a reason the community should give a full support to the project to seeing that it is delivered right within time. Country Manager of Zipline, Catherine Odiase, said they are thrilled to partner Cross River. “Our partnership with Cross River State transcends delivering medical supplies. We are on a mission to reinvent healthcare delivery systems through cutting edge solutions. This is with a view to ensure healthy lives and promote the well-being for all at all ages. “On Completion, due in about four months, the hub will facilitate deliveries of vital medical supplies to health facilities that serve millions of people across the state,: she added. The centre is expected to support all health facilities with emergency response capabilities, as well as routine and stockout-response deliveries of medicines, vaccines, and blood. The distribution centre will also support the delivery of medical supplies 24 hours a day and seven days a week. 