Gov Yahaya’s aide resigns • Police go after arsonists Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State, Alh. Jamilu Gwamna, has dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Gwamna, who is aspiring to the state’s governorship in the 2023 general elections, put up his resignation letter to the APC in Jekadafari ward on Tuesday. Many believe that his resignation would greatly deplete the APC’s population and threaten the re-election of Governor Muhammad Yahaya. In the resignation letter, which copy was obtained by The Guardian, yesterday, Gwamna said he made the decision after wide consultation with his family, political associates and supporters. Although he did not state reasons for dumping the party, his supporters claimed that the APC leadership in Gombe had already endorsed the governor for second term. “That was an indication that the party would not provide level-playing ground for all aspirants in the next primary elections,” his associate, Isah Kaltungo, stated. Sources at the PDP confirmed plans to receive the billionaire politician into their fold. SIMILARLY, Special Adviser to the Governor on Social Investment, Mrs. Dijatu Bappa, has resigned her position.
Dijatu, in a letter addressed to the governor on Monday, noted that the resignation was with immediate effect. She did not state the reason for her decision, but simply told the governor in the letter that she had terminated her service. This came barely two days after a former commissioner, Dr. Ahmed Gana, also left APC for the PDP. MEANWHILE, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Babatunde Babaita, has set machinery in motion towards apprehending the hoodlums, who destroyed and razed properties in the state on Tuesday. Hoodlums had set ablaze the state secretariat of the PDP and the North East campaign office of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, as well as APC stand at Shongon Idirisa, popularly called Kwana Governor. Babaita told The Guardian yesterday: “Never under my watch will heinous crimes ever be perpetrated.” The police chief said he was disturbed that despite his many campaigns, including media outreach, some people could still concoct crimes as condemnable as arson and breakages. He said: “I assure you that the command has taken bold and serious steps to arrest the last person involved in the social and public disturbance on Tuesday.” 