Sir: It is very true that human epochs are replete with great men and women in the various fields who defined and continue to define their peculiar histories with the magnitude of their accomplishments. One of such unique individuals in Africa is Comrade (Otunba) Salimon Akanni Oladiti (JP); the national chairman of Petroleum Tanker Drivers Branch of NUPENG. It is on this score that it becomes apposite to inspire the Nigerian youths about the virtues of this ingenious mentor that hard work combined with the fear of God are incontrovertibly rewarding. Apart from his remarkable legacies, he remains a blessing to humanity with penchant for espousing esteemed sense of transparency, accountability, integrity, probity and also reaching out to those in need. He is a silent achiever who strategically organised numerous retreats, training and workshops locally and internationally on ‘thinking outside the box’ in the recent past and the impact of that has significantly enhanced dedication to service, responsibility and also engendering nationwide effective/efficient service delivery for the greater good of industrial, commercial and domestic satisfaction of all Nigerians in petroleum products lifting and distributions Through God’s given wisdom, Oladiti transformed the PTD and also pushing the frontiers but not for pecuniary gains; opening various chains of lucrative business opportunities for the tanker drivers to the admiration of other branches within NUPENG. From membership, discipline, revenue generation, right investment decisions, fiscal discipline/funding, branch management and respect for constitution, excellent conduct of members from unit level to national level; working in harmony with the president and general secretary of the parent union (NUPENG) coupled with the strength in reinventing the ability to reward positive conduct and sanction recalcitrant, anti-union conducts etc. His task has been to work with the union leadership at all levels and other industry stakeholders in a most civilised manner to pull their members together in order to build a strong, virile and united union. Here is the story of a man who was once a motor boy but today has become oil and gas giant to be reckoned with, in the entire Petroleum industry value chain. In 1964, the unfortunate incident happened as he lost his dad while in primary four, as a result of which he could not go any further. The young Oladiti had to engage himself in child labour for survival under severe and inhuman conditions. Impressively, the story of Oladiti can instructively serve as a guiding tool for Nigerian youths and even young entrepreneurs, especially in encouraging them on how to embrace the culture of hard work, learning, sacrifices, resilience, diligence, discipline and perseverance in order to realise their God-given potentials and achieving success, while also bearing in mind that there shouldn’t be excuses for failures or resorting to crimes or any other defiant behaviours in life. Emmanuel Ajibulu is an infoprenuer, publisher of veracitydesk.com.ng, writer, communication consultant and social media influencer. 