 Eyelash extensions Photo Beauty & Bronze Eyelash extensions have become increasingly popular as semi-permanent makeup has also grown in popularity. Before now, eyelashes were reserved for days we have a full glam of makeup on. In fact, we have watched lashes evolve from heated curlers to full-length falsies and even magnetic lashes. So, when eyelash extensions hit the mainstream market as a lasting, painless option to getting the wispy fluttering lashes we all desire without having to worry about falsies or mascara, the excitement was unmatched. These semi-permanent lashes add a sophisticated finish to your face, and once you get one, you won’t go back. Oh! And no need to worry about them looking fake; when done correctly, these extensions look like they sprung from your lash bed. Are you planning to get your first semi-permanent eyelash extensions? Here’s your everything guide to getting your lashes done. What are Eyelash Extensions? Eyelash Extensions Photo The Makeup Eyelash extensions are semi-permanent fibres added to your natural eyelashes for a fuller, longer effect. Using semi-permanent glue, individual lash extensions are applied to your natural lashes, one extension per natural lash. For a fuller look, multiple extensions might be added to one lash. Depending on your lash tech, these extensions could be synthetic, mink, faux mink, or silk fibres with varying lengths and curl patterns. In many cases, your lash tech might have their own preference but if you’re vegan or have allergies, be sure to mention your preference before your session. While mink and silk lashes look more natural and synthetic lashes are thicker and darker; no extension type lasts longer than the other. The reason is that proper maintenance is the only way to ensure your lashes last longer and remain clean. So how’s it done? Since your eyes would be closed throughout the session, let’s take a brief tour of how the process goes. The first step is to decide on what type of sex you would like, you can choose between the classic, hybrid or volume set. Sometimes, to achieve desired results, your lash tech would use different lengths of extensions. The next step would be to prep. To start, your lash tech would hold down your bottom lashes with some tape and use another strip to lift your eyelids. Once properly prepped, they’ll move on to the application. To get the right results, the lash artist would use multiple lengths and curls to create the wide-eyed effect of semi-permanent lash extensions. To achieve this, longer lashes would be placed at the outer edge of the eye, while shorter ones would be used in the inner corners. These extensions would be applied to your natural lashes, one at a time, using semi-permanent glue. This glue does not irritate the eyes or damage your natural lashes. Typically the process lasts between 30 minutes to 1 hour and can be very therapeutic. Once properly dried, it’ll be time to remove the under eye gel and tapes. Finally, it’s time to brush the lashes, and you’re good to go. Prepping for Your Appointment Like with every beauty process, there are dos and don’ts before getting your lashes done. For one, you need first to find the right lash artist. Once that’s done, you can book your appointment. Before your appointment, be sure to take off your makeup. You need to arrive at your appointment bare-faced; you should also skip the retinol in your beauty regimen. Also, skip caffeine or energy drinks to prevent jitters, and make sure to use the bathroom before your appointment. If you get bored easily, make a playlist and be sure to dress comfortably. Caring for Your Extensions The first tip to ensuring your lashes stay at their best is to avoid wetting them from the first 48 hours. Next is to avoid steaming and using cleansers on your face as the oil in these products cause them to dissolve. When cleaning your face, make sure to stay away from the showerhead, as the water pressure could weaken the glue. Avoid rubbing your eyes; touching/picking at your eyes could cause them to fall out faster. Okay, now for doing your makeup, stay away from waterproof mascara, glittery eyeshadows and loose powder. To clean your face correctly, grab a bowl of water and gently splash the bottom of your face and forehead. Next, apply a little soap to the lower half of your face and forehead, then rinse by lightly dabbing with water in an outward motion. Oh! And remember to brush them regularly. Looking down, support under your lashes with your pointer finger. Next, gently twirl the spoolie on the top side of your lashes (the opposite of how you’d apply mascara; brushing that way will tug at the hair).