• Intercepts counterfeit $4.7 million cash in Abuja
Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested a nursing mother, Mrs. Rashidat Adebayo, barely three weeks after she was granted administrative bail, for dealing in illicit drugs. Adebayo, 38, was arrested in Offa, Kwara State with assorted drugs, such as Tramadol, Swinol, Diazepam and Pentazocine injection ampules. Before her latest arrest on Thursday, February 17, the nursing mother was arrested and granted bail on January 24, 2022 for dealing in similar drugs. Similarly, NDLEA officers have arrested two drug dealers, namely: Sani Isa (aka Bilaz) and Bala Yerima in Hong, Adamawa State with 239 blocks of Cannabis sativa weighing 209kg, just as the Bauchi State Command intercepted a truck; marked FFF 422 XB coming from Lagos to Maiduguri, at Azare, Bauchi. A total of 164.8kg of Cannabis sativa concealed in peak milk cartons was recovered from the truck. Also, the agency has foiled attempt by a syndicate to steal about N2.7 billion from the Nigerian economy by pushing into circulation fake $4.7 million cash. Spokesperson for the agency, Femi Babafemi, in a statement said, “NDLEA operatives had in the early hours of Friday,  February 18, 2022, intercepted a consignment sent from Lagos to Abuja at Abaji area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).” Rashidat A controlled delivery of the parcelled counterfeit US dollars totalling $4, 760, 000.00, he said, led to the arrest of a principal suspect, 52-year-old Abdulmumini Maikasuwa. According to him, the seizure followed intelligence received by the FCT Command of the Agency, detailing the movement of the cash and the vehicle conveying it. Meanwhile, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd), has directed that both the cash and the suspect in custody be transferred to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), for further investigation. Marwa also commended officers and men of the FCT Command for their vigilance in preventing counterfeit $4.7 million from going into the streets. He charged them and their counterparts in Adamawa, Kwara, Bauchi and others across the country not to rest on their oars. 