Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State have raised the alarm over alleged plot by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to use the unresolved crisis in some states, particularly Bayelsa, to scuttle the February 26 national convention of the party. The members, in a letter sent to the Yobe State. Governor and National Caretaker Chairman of the Party, Gov. Mai Mala Buni, warned that the refusal of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, to convene a stakeholders meeting to resolve the factional crisis may be a trap to truncate the convention. They accused party leaders of refusing to convene a meeting as recommended by the reconciliation committee as the executives set up at the ward, local government and state level are all invalid. The Abubakar Adamu reconciliation committee after a meeting with leaders of the party in Bayelsa State resolved that the state leader of the party, Timipre Sylva, should convene a meeting of stakeholders of the APC in the state. The meeting is expected to be hosted by Chief David Lyon to resolve the issues raised in the petition within seven days but with few days to the national convention, the key actors in the crisis are yet to agree on a meeting. The aggrieved members, under the aegis of the Grassroots Mobilisers Forum of APC, Bayelsa State chapter, said the purportedly elected officers of the party in the state should not be invited or allowed to come close to the forthcoming national convention in order to save the party’s fortune. In a statement by the group signed by its chairman, Idutimi Komonibo, the Secretary-General, Dallas Ebibi and the Vice Chairman, Reuben Wilson, stated that to put the records correctly, and to save the forthcoming national convention of APC, we wish to further communicate to you in writing the “trap” the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has set to fault the National Convention. “With due respect Sir, the “bait” the PDP is using to set the “trap” is the “INVALID delegates.” 