 A person spraying perfume | Photo – Greatlist Our business is looking good and smelling even better.   If you’re like us, you’re probably constantly on the lookout for new colognes and willing to splurge once it lives up to expectations. One important detail you’d always find in the description of every cologne is the type of fragrance, whether perfume, eau de toilette, parfum or eau de cologne. If you didn’t already know, these fragrances differ, and this difference is mainly based on their concentration. The concentration of these fragrances determines how light or strong the scent will be and how long it’ll last. Okay, now that we’ve got that out of the way, let’s move on to explaining the differences in these cologne fragrances in detail: Sometimes described as parfum or pure perfume, Extrait De Parfum does not refer to pure perfume oil, which is a well-known skin irritant and doesn’t smell good as well. Parfum is the most highly concentrated fragrance with 15-30% perfume oil, making the scent potent and long-lasting. Now you can be sure of wearing this fragrance all through the day without fear of it wearing off. Its long-lasting feature also means that Parfums are priced higher and might take some change out of your perfume. There’s still more great news with this fragrance choice as its low alcohol content makes it perfect for everyone, even those with sensitive skin. Also, the Extrait de parfum’s sillage; how far the fragrance extends from your body in the air around you is way noticeable. Chances are, if you’re wearing pure perfume, anyone you hug would most likely smell like you for hours. EDPs come in second, also having a high concentration of pure perfume oil, between 15-20%. Having a much more subtle smell, these perfumes are made to last all day long without transferring or lingering. A more popular fragrance choice, EDPs are more affordable and can be easily found in perfume stores. Much milder, Eau de toilettes have between 5-15% concentration of pure perfume oil. Not made for a full day wear, some perfumers would advise limiting your EDTs to full day wear and EDPs to nighttime wear. But there’s really no rule book to this when you can touch up along the day. While many fragrances start as Eau de parfums, they are later released in much lighter eau de toilette versions; however, the notes are strikingly different from their parfum counterparts. To create a much lighter fragrance, heavy fragrances like woods patchouli are replaced with florals or citrus to boost effervescence. A very light concentration of 2-4% pure perfume oil eau de cologne is cut with more alcohol and lasts only a few hours a day; they’re a great add on to any fragrance but not meant to be worn all day. Lastly, eau fraiche also has a very low concentration of alcohol, sometimes 1-3%. The difference between Eau Fraiche fragrances is that these colognes are mixed with alcohol like traditional fragrances are. An important detail to note is that this fragrance is mixed with mostly water and serves as a quick refresher without a long-lasting scent. Now one thing to understand is that high-end colognes cost more generally regardless of the fragrance. So before paying for a cologne, make sure to do some research on the fragrance type, fragrance notes, and brand to be sure you’re picking only the best. If you need some help, don’t be shy to contact a perfumer, a closed mouth never helped anyone.