Since it was created on May 27, 1967, by virtue of the States (Creation and Transitional Provisions) Decree No. 14 of 1967, which restructured the federation into 12 states, Lagos State has continued to grow on diverse fronts.
   
The Lagos Municipality at that time was administered as a Federal Territory by the Federal Government, through the Federal Ministry of Lagos Affairs, as the regional authority, while the Lagos City Council governed the City of Lagos.  
   
Also at that time, the metropolitan areas (Colony Province) of Ikeja, Agege, Mushin, Ojo, Ikorodu, Epe, and Badagry were then administered by the Western Region Government. But on April 11, 1968, the state began its journey as an administrative entity with Lagos serving the dual role of the state and federal capital respectively. Over the years, Lagos has grown in leaps and bounds as well as attaining different milestones, including a megacity status in 1995 when its population went above 10 million people, per UN-Habitat.  Even though the Federal Government still relates with Lagos State based on the original 20 local councils, Lagos State has been administering the grassroots through a combination of the 20 local councils and the 37 LCDAs. An LCDA is an administrative unit created by state governments to pursue state-specific development agenda and administrative convenience.   The former Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Olurunimbe Mamora, who is now the Minister of State for Health, while speaking after 30 lawmakers voted in support of the 37 LCDAs creation on June 18, 2002, commended his colleagues for taking the step, saying that the newly created entities would bring government and development closer to the grassroots.
  
Even though their origin became a highly contentious issue when it first happened in 2003, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of their existence. To add to the controversy trailing these LCDAs, last July, a group identified as Concerned APC Progressives kicked against conducting election in the 37 LCDAs since the 1999 constitution recognises only 20 local councils in Lagos state.
 
In a petition they submitted to the APC national caretaker committee led by Mai Mala Buni, “The petitioners charged that whereas Local Council elections can only be validly held in the recognised 20 local government councils in Lagos State, it would amount to the total disregard of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria if the national body of the All Progressives Party is dealing with Lagos on the grounds of 20 local government councils, and the Lagos Chapter of the party on its own volition is dealing within itself based on 57 local government councils,” the statement reads.
  
In the petition signed by Kabir Onaolapo and Olajide Olukogbe, the chairman and secretary, respectively, the group said: “If this is allowed without the party at the national level taking urgent steps to correct the anomaly, it might grievously affect and undermine the existence of the political party in the state.”
  
Of course, that is history now and the election went on successfully. However, beyond the council chairmen emerging and occupying offices as has been the case over the years, some residents are not convinced that LCDAs existence has brought development closer to the people. 
 
For Bemigho Awala, a resident, judging from all available indices and social developmental metrics, besides political gains made during the creation of the LCDAs 20 years ago, residents have not felt any impact. 
 
Awala added: “The political challenge that local councils generally have, where many state governors have rendered them as mere appendages are what has affected them. So, I can say that not much value has been added to governance to the point that people can truly say our LCDA is working.
  
“In terms of real and actionable development that has bearing on social development – health, education, social and recreational platforms, LCDs need to do a lot more,” the communication consultant said. 
  
But Edidi Shamsudeen Ayodeji, an engineer thinks otherwise. For him, LCDAs creation remains a variant of the dividend of democracy, especially when the right man is at the helm of affairs. 
  
According to him, while the Odi-Olowo Ojuwoye Local Council Development Area has been flourishing, that cannot be said of the Mushin Local Council, which he alleged has not been blessed with the right leaders. However, if the council had not been split into two, the generality of Mushin would have been retrogressive.” 