Download logo Whilst on mission in Paris France, President Wavel Ramkalawan also held talks with the Director General of UNESCO, Mrs Audrey Azoulay at the UNESCO Headquarters yesterday afternoon.  During their discussions, President Ramkalawan conveyed to Mrs Azoulay the sincere appreciation of the people of Seychelles for the longstanding support provided to Seychelles by UNESCO. He highlighted the recent inscription of the‘moutya’ dance on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of humanity. He also expressed his gratitude on being named as one of the Patrons of the Ocean Decade Alliance alongside the Prime Minister of Norway. “Seychelles is grateful for all the support UNESCO has extended to us over the years. My country is immensely proud to host two World Heritage Sites ‘Aldabra and Vallée de Mai and one Category II Centre of UNESCO- the Seychelles IECD for Early Childhood Development. We recently also had the ‘Moutya Dance’, inscribed on the List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. And as a son of Seychelles to be appointed a Patron of the Ocean Decade Advisory Board set up by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO is an honour of the greatest magnitude” said President Ramkalawan. In accepting the nomination to the Ocean Decade Alliance as a member and Patron, the President said he strongly believes that ocean science diplomacy has a crucial role to play in facilitating the emergence and application of sciences needed to support ocean governance and its management at all levels. “UNESCO, especially through the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, has provided capable and sustained leadership in this and other related areas. Seychelles will continue to provide the IOC with the support that is required in the pursuit of our common endeavour and in the implementation of the objectives of the Ocean Decade.” On her part the DG UNESCO, Mrs Azoulay congratulated Seychelles for its various achievements in the domain of climate change advocacy despite being a Small Island Developing State (SIDS). She further reaffirmed the commitment of UNESCO in advancing the priorities of SIDS and in further echoing the vulnerabilities of Small Island nations are facing in the global arena. The meeting was also an opportunity to discuss new avenues of cooperation and how Seychelles can further benefit from key UNESCO programmes and frameworks. Hence, further advance agendas of mutual interests, not only for the country but also for the greater good of the SIDS community, the world and humanity. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of State House – Office of the President of the Republic of Seychelles.