• Scraps FCT minister’s office, gives 37 senatorial slots to women
• Senate okays Maritime Security Trust Fund National Assembly constitution review committee has separated the office of Minister of Justice from that of Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), saying the move will make the latter independent, non-partisan and restore dignity to the justice system. The committee also removed ownership of airports and railway transportation from the exclusive list, with a view to boosting transportation. Chairman, House committee on constitution review and Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, who submitted the report before lawmakers during plenary, yesterday, insisted the committee carried out its assignment diligently. Highlighting some of the contents of the 68 clauses amended in the Constitution, spokesman of the House, Benjamin Kalu, said many Nigerians had doubted early submission of the committee’s report. He claimed the ninth Assembly has done the most comprehensive review of the Constitution. The review makes provision for financial autonomy for the judiciary, to ensure quick and fair dispensation of justice, and also local councils. Besides, it scrapped the office of the minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), making provision for a mayoral seat for indigenous people of the FCT, to enable them have a representative in the Federal Executive Council. The power sector, among many others, was not left out, as states are permitted to generate and distribute electricity to end epileptic power supply in the country. With the review, the controversy surrounding collection of Value Added Tax (VAT) has swung favourably to the Federal Government. ALSO, Senate said it has adopted a review that will give opportunity to womenfolk to produce one female senator each in the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory. This was disclosed at plenary when the lawmakers welcomed the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, who visited the chamber to drum support for the same purpose. The First Lady was also on ground to witness presentation of the review report. MEANWHILE, Senate has passed a bill seeking to establish the Nigerian Maritime Security Trust Fund. The new law provides funds for equipment and machinery that would aid seamless protection of waterways by the Nigerian Navy. According to the Senate, the bill will boost the economy because oil, which is the mainstay of the Nigerian economy. Original sponsor of the bill, Yusuf Gbagi (APC, Plateau), said it is imperative that the Nigerian Navy is equipped and trained to curb the excesses of pirates, oil thieves, and illegal activities on the nation’s waterways that could hamper the nation’s economic development. 