 Canon Europe (www.Canon-CNA.com) announces the latest addition to its MAXIFY GX printer range, the MAXIFY GX5040. Designed for small to mid-size offices and workspaces, the MAXIFY GX5040 single function printer is the third and most compact MAXIFY GX model yet to use refillable MegaTank technology. Offering enhanced enterprise security, versatile and high-speed printing, it promises less downtime, reduced running costs and energy use [i].  High quality, low running costs Small businesses no longer need to choose between running costs and high-volume, high-quality colour printing. Ideal for presentation print outs or marketing materials, the MAXIFY GX5040 can print 14,000 pages [ii] from a single full set of all pigment durable ink bottles producing highly durable business documents that are water and marker resistant, while its inbuilt Economy Mode increases yield by 1.5x compared with its Standard Mode; producing approximately 21,000 pages [iii] from a full set of ink bottles for larger volume printing. High-speed, high-volume printing is also taken care of with the MAXIFY GX5040, with printing speeds of approximately 24.0 ipm in black and 15.5 ipm in colour and a first print out in as quickly as seven seconds [iv] in mono. The MAXIFY GX5040 is ideal for situations where quick responses are required, whether that be customer service counters or small clinics. Significantly reducing outsourcing costs and efficiency, the MAXIFY GX5040 can also print on various media, from envelopes, decorative store-front posters, banners up to 1.2m (plain paper only), iron on transfers and magnetic sheets – addressing multiple printing needs in a single device. More action, less downtime With less need for everyday upkeep, the MAXIFY GX5040 has productivity at its core. The MAXIFY GX5040’s large capacity ink tanks mean fewer refills, fewer supplier orders and less downtime. Easy to use ink bottles are designed with distinct inlets so only the correct colour can be added to the printer ink tanks and the purpose-built bottle nozzles remove the risk of tank overspill. Ink levels can be checked at a glance thanks to ink tank windows on the front of the printer, making unexpected ink outages a problem of the past. The MAXIFY GX5040’s large capacity paper tray split between a 100-sheet rear feed and 250 sheet front cassette also means reduced paper reloads, so the printer is always ready to go – allowing for continuous printing at volume without the need to return to the machine. As with the ink tank windows, the paper level is easily checked with a quick glance through a small window on the printer’s front cassette. For fuss-free upkeep, the maintenance cartridge can be replaced easily – saving time on sending the printer for repair or waiting for an engineer. MAXIFY GX5040 users can operate from a desktop, laptop or smart device for quick and convenient printing via the Canon PRINT app for iOS and Android, as well as platforms including AirPrint® and Mopria®. For extra convenience and security, User Management means an administrator can restrict printer functions, preventing unauthorised access and operations alongside enhanced enterprise security with WPA2-EAP [v]. Savings on plastic waste and energy High yield ink bottles mean fewer refills – cutting out the need for ink cartridges and toner. High quality automatic duplex printing at the same density as single-sided printing also means the MAXIFY GX5040 saves on paper. Eco settings such as auto power on and off modes mean users can schedule the printer to only be operational during working hours. The MAXIFY GX5040 single function joins the GX6050 (print, copy scan with ADF) and GX7050 (print, copy scan, fax with D-ADF) MegaTank models in the MAXIFY GX range. Launched in 2021, the two models were introduced to provide businesses with a robust, scalable and low total cost of ownership printing solution to meet their needs. Suhaib Hussain, Canon Europe Product Manager for Professional Printers and Software said: “The MAXIFY GX5040 bolsters our MAXIFY GX printer range with another fantastic model. The MAXIFY GX range completely streamlines admin for smaller businesses, helping teams run everyday routines more effectively by reducing downtime and running costs. At Canon we strive to support businesses of all sizes with the tools they need to work as efficiently as possible, with a constant eye on quality and cost.” For more information on the Canon MAXIFY GX5040 please visit here! (https://bit.ly/3Iu0YOU) Key Features: [i] Estimated average savings when printing 1,000 pages per month over 5 years based on the initial purchase cost of hardware plus the costs of ink or toner. The comparison models in the total cost of ownership (TCO) savings include the top 10 best-selling colour laser printers and top 10 best-selling inkjet printers according to the IDC EMEA Hardcopy Tracker (Data Q1 2020 – Q3 2020). See Canon website for more details. [ii] Page yield is the estimated value based on the Canon individual test method using the ISO/IEC 24712 chart and continuous printing simulation with the replacement after initial setup. [iii] The economy mode reduces the ink consumption by lowering the density, 50 per cent more pages than the standard mode can be printed. [iv]  A4 document print speed on plain paper is measured based on average of ESAT in Office Category Test of ISO/IEC 24734 standard. [v] IEEE802.1X (EAP-TLS/EAP-TTLS/PEAP) available. [vi] Page yield is the estimated value based on the Canon individual test method using the ISO/IEC 24712 chart and continuous printing simulation with the replacement after initial setup. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
E-mail: Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
E-mail: Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei (https://bit.ly/3J4PpOT) – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: Canon-CNA.com