 THE VIEW- The Season 25 Celebration of ‘The View’ begins live, Tuesday, September 7, 2021 as the co-hosts are back in the show’s New York City studio and ready to get the conversation started at the iconic Hot Topics table.<br />(ABC/Jenny Anderson)<br />WHOOPI GOLDBERG ABC has suspended actor Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks after she said that the Nazi genocide of six million Jews “was not about race.”   ABC News President Kim Godwin announcing Goldberg’s suspension said she decided it was not enough. “Effective immediately, I am suspending Whoopi Goldberg for two weeks for her wrong and hurtful comments,” Godwin said in a statement posted on the TV channel’s public relations Twitter account. “While Whoopi has apologized, I’ve asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact of her comments,” Godwin said. Oscar-winning TV host Whoopi Goldberg had said on ABC’s The View that the Holocaust involved “two white groups of people.” She said this during a discussion centered around a Tennessee school banning the 1986 graphic novel “Maus: A Survivor’s Tale,” about life at the Nazi concentration camp at Auschwitz. The Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, in which Jews are depicted as mice and Nazis are depicted as cats, has long been hailed as a striking and accurate portrayal of the Nazi extermination of millions of Jews during World War II. However, Goldberg faced backlash as many of the show’s viewers pointed out that race was central to the genocide, with the Nazis believing themselves to be a master race. Jonathan Greenblatt, head of the Anti-Defamation League, tweeted, “No @WhoopiGoldberg, the #Holocaust was about the Nazi’s systematic annihilation of the Jewish people – who they deemed to be an inferior race.” “They dehumanised them and used this racist propaganda to justify slaughtering six million Jews. Holocaust distortion is dangerous,” he added. The US Holocaust Museum also confirmed that racism was central to Nazi ideology. They tweeted, “Jews were not defined by religion, but by race. Nazi racist beliefs fuelled genocide and mass murder.” Following the backlash, Goldberg tweeted an apology on Monday. She wrote, “on today’s show, I said the Holocaust ‘is not about race, but about man’s inhumanity to man’. I should have said it is about both.” “The Jewish people around the world have always had my support, and that will never waiver. I’m sorry for the hurt I have caused,” she continued. This is not the first of Goldberg’s controversial stance. Goldberg had also defended comedian Bill Cosby as he faced sexual abuse allegations leveled by dozens of women. However, following backlash, she later retracted her stance. Twitter users also brought up the talk show host’s defense of Ted Danson after the actor used blackface and racial slurs in a 1990s roast of Goldberg.  