God showed me a vision about Nigeria just after Murtala Muhammad’s regime. God likened the country to a big vehicle moving beside a river. The vehicle suddenly began to reverse and stuck in the river beside it. While the front tyres were on the road, the back ones sunk, making it difficult for it to move forward or backward. Adetunbi  This is a call for Nigerians to come together in unity and to submit to God. This is the only way our vehicle can come out from the mud. Proverb 9:10 says: “The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom; And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.” When we fear and honour God, things will turn around for good for us. As I continued to pray, asking God for the way out, He directed me to Jonah 3:1-10. To save the country, God has directed President Muhammad Buhari, as the leader of the nation, to call for three-day fasting and prayers across the country. The three-day solemnity will also be declared a national holiday. God said after this, peace will return to the nation. I also asked how would the event be conducted and He directed me to Psalm 51. On the first day, we are to confess our sins and repent from them. On second day, we are to read and pray with Psalm 121:1-8 and Psalm 126: 1-6, while on the third-day, we are to read Psalm 136:1-26, for thanksgiving, believing our prayers have been answered. According to Isaiah 45.7, it is only after this that Nigeria will have peace and be free from problems and sicknesses. Firstly, we are to get the vehicle out of the mud. So, let’s come together and think deeply about this because no one can drive a vehicle sunk in mud. We need to do the needful and stop blaming our leaders because if the president leaves the seat without doing this, we will still continue to suffer. The only solution is to return to God in repentance, 1Corinthians 3:19! May God grant our leaders the knowledge and wisdom to lead the nation aright? May this year be a joyful one to all of us, Amen! Hallelujah! My revelation also goes to the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who is still holding the sword God gave to him to solve the nation’s problem, which he is still keeping. Let him please call me for further discuss on this, 2Corinthians 5:10. • Contact: Prophet C. A. Adetunbi; Christ Church Of Grace, Baba Tope Bus Stop, 37 Y/S Street, Ajangbadi, Ilogbo Road Ojo Lagos State. 08033475958.