Members of Rivers State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), led by Senator Magnus Abe, said yesterday they support the presidential bid of former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu because he saved them from shame and ridicule in 2013 when they were dislodged from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). A chieftain of the APC faction, Tony Okocha, said the then supporters of the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, were like orphans and constantly intimidated by the PDP after the mantle of leadership was taken away from them but Tinubu brought them into APC and gave them all the necessary support. Okocha, who is the state Coordinator of Bola Ahmed Tinubu Support Vanguard (BATS-V), stated this during the inauguration of the BAT-Vanguard in Elele in Ikwere council of the state. He said: “BAT rescued us in 2014 when we were being pummeled daily by the PDP, so our business is to sell BAT and we want Rivers State to be part of our story. BAT will become President, come 2023. Similarly, a former member of the House of Representatives, Chidi Wihioka, said Tinubu is not just best qualified but rescued them in 2014 when the Peoples Democratic Party was intimidating them. He said Tinubu would solve the problem of Nigeria, being that the presidency has been his lifelong ambition. He said: “We stand by Tinubu and by Tinubu we will continue to stand because this is a man after bringing governor for eight years has never aspired to be minister, senator, vice president or take an appointment, instead, has always nominated people to such positions. “We are not aware that someone from Ikwerre wants to become the President of this country. All of our votes in Ikwerre will be for Tinubu come 2023.” A former Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Otelemaba Amachree, urged stakeholders to forget the past, but ensure the emergence of BAT as the President in 2023. “We all should see this as our own personal project. We must put every effort to ensure that BAT and Senator Magnus Abe are at Aso Rock and at the brick house come 2023.” Meanwhile, the global Chairman of BATS Vanguard, Dr. Dare Owotomobi, who was at the rally, commended the people of Rivers State for their support for BAT. Owotomobi said: “I want to assure you that Rivers State is recognised as a home state for Tinubu.”