Detectives have been granted additional time to interview a man in his 20s who was arrested on suspicion of rape and assault on Sunday, reports express.co.uk. The news comes a day after Manchester United forward Mason Greenwood was suspended by his club following allegations made on social media. A woman claimed that she was injured at the hands of Greenwood, who is yet to respond with a statement of any kind to the allegations in question. Police also visited his home in Cheshire in search of evidence, according to The Athletic, as it was revealed that a man had been taken into custody. Greater Manchester Police delivered an update yesterday with a statement revealing that they have been granted extra time to speak to the arrested individual. “Detectives have been granted additional time to speak to a man in his 20s who is being held on suspicion of rape and assault of a woman,” the statement read. “The suspect was arrested yesterday (Sunday 30 January) and remains in custody. Enquiries are ongoing and the victim is being offered specialist support. “We remind people to avoid any commentary or sharing of images that could compromise the victim’s right to lifelong anonymity, or risk prejudicing a live investigation with active proceedings. “If you’re a victim of domestic abuse, or are concerned about someone you know, please use our online reporting facility or use our LiveChat facility on our website, or call 101. “In an emergency that’s ongoing or life is in danger, always dial 999.”
  United issued a statement of their own on Sunday after the allegations made against Greenwood came to light. They wrote: “We will not make any further comment until the facts have been established. Manchester United does not condone violence of any kind.” Nike, one of Greenwood’s sponsors, also responded in kind by declaring: “We are deeply concerned by the disturbing allegations and will continue to closely monitor the situation.” Greenwood joined United at the age of six and has registered 129 senior appearances for the Red Devils since making his professional debut in 2019. He has also represented England on a single occasion but has not played for the Three Lions since breaking COVID-19 restrictions while on international duty in Iceland in September 2020. The United academy graduate was sent home after he and Manchester City forward Phil Foden invited two Icelandic models to the team hotel in Reykjavik. Greenwood went on to miss out on a place in the England squad that reached the final of Euro 2020 last summer, although he was never officially suspended by manager Gareth Southgate.