The Federal Government, yesterday, pledged to continue to partner with private sector to advance Nigeria’s economic growth. Speaking at the opening of 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair, organised by the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industries, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA), President Buhari, represented by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adebayo, reiterated Federal Government’s commitment to partner with the private sector in realising its vision of a strong and resilient economy. He said: “COVID-19 and its attendant effects on crude oil prices, foreign exchange and investment inflows, have shown there is need to urgently, reconsider and modify the thinking on investment led by comparative advantage only, in order to guarantee Nigeria’s economic security. “Our need to drive job-intensive economic growth means t we have to enable investment in areas with high potential for job creation and reducing the demand for foreign exchange. It also serves as an opportunity to change the country’s narrative to become less vulnerable to incidents, which were not created…”. President Buhari commended the Kaduna State government for being one of the most frequently mentioned destinations for investors, and for implementing innovative ways in advancing the economy. The Nigerian Ambassador to Chad, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (rtd) said the Federal Government would strengthen international trade with the Republic of Chad for the benefits of both countries. “This is the first time we came with a Chadian delegation to discuss with Nigerian businessmen and women to understand the environment. The idea is for them to see opportunities, strengthen partnership and collaboration for trade that will be beneficial for the Chadian people,” he said. Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, represented by the Commissioner, Business, Innovation and Technology, Prof. Kabiru Mato commended KADCCIMA for the yearly event, which he said would provide opportunities to company to showcase their products to boost state economy. The President of the chamber, Alhaji Suleiman Aliyu, spoke on the need to focus on the efforts to revamp Nigeria’s dwindling economic fortunes. Also, National President, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Mr. Ide Udeagbala, commended KADCCIMA for the consistency in organising the trade fair. 