On Monday, January 31, 2022, Rwanda’s President Paul Kagame and Commonwealth Secretary-General, The Rt. Hon. Patricia Scotland announced that the week of 20 June 2022 as the new date agreed with member countries for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) which would take place in Kigali, Rwanda. CHOGM is a biennial event which holds every two years and is the Commonwealth’s highest consultative and policy-making gathering. According to the official release by Rwanda and The Commonwealth; and speaking on the newest announcement, President Kagame of Rwanda stated that “Rwanda is pleased to welcome all delegates and participants to Kigali for a safe and productive CHOGM Rwanda 2022. The last two years have made it clear to us that we are more connected than ever before and we must work together to achieve the tangible and sustainable results we want.” The Commonwealth Secretary-General, The Rt. Hon. Patricia Scotland stated that “I am delighted that the Commonwealth family can finally be reunited, four years on from our last CHOGM in London. Our meetings in Rwanda will give us a real opportunity to reaffirm the values that bind the Commonwealth together and focus on vital issues, including the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, tackling climate change and poverty, boosting trade and promoting sustainable development – all issues that can only be dealt with decisively through multilateral cooperation and mutual support. According to the official release, the Secretary-General further stated that “We have adapted throughout the pandemic, holding ministerial meetings online. It is with great joy and anticipation that I look ahead to a face-to-face Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting. This will be the first CHOGM to be held in Africa for over a decade and I would like to commend the Government and people of Rwanda for their outstanding commitment and dedication to delivering an exemplary CHOGM in Kigali. I thank all Rwandans for their grace and fortitude in undertaking such detailed preparations to ensure a safe, secure and productive CHOGM that drives the Commonwealth forward in these trying times.” On the other hand, in his statement, President Paul Kagame further stated in his remarks that “The long-awaited meeting will be an important occasion to come together to address the challenges caused by the COVID 19 pandemic and to build on innovative technological and economic opportunities to solve other key problems facing our citizens.” The first CHOGM was held in 1971 in Singapore. The 54 member countries organisation summit called CHOGM was due to have been held in Kigali in June 2020 but was postponed twice due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of the covid19 pandemic, the 26th CHOGM was first postponed from 22-27 June 2020. The 26th CHOGM and its associated side events would be held in Kigali in the week of June 20 2022.