The physiological profile of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has, lately, been an intensive subject of deliberation and controversies in the polity of the Nigerian state. The graphics of the “Jagaban” standing in a gathering with his agbada drenched with ‘water’ on the backside, which the “unsympathetic” have assumed to be urine was conspicuously displayed for the desired political effect. What was surprising is that only few people are reading between the lines both in terms of the timing of the information and the essence of its partisan objectives. Would Asiwaju Bola Tinubu have been screened up to his under-pant if he were not to be a candidate for the coveted position of the number one citizen of the country? Your guess is as good as mine. Why was it not assumed that Asiwaju mistakenly sat on a wet divan or a carelessly placed pure-water sachet? Is it impossible for the man to sweat?  Is it not possible that rather than the reality of the situation, the purported image was deliberately concocted to undersell the front runner in a race that is beginning to exude and engender spitefulness and sadism that stem from petty rivalry and intense hatred? Every discerning mind could provide a long list of questions in an attempt to probe the veracity of the photographs. Whatever the situation may be, the entire episode presents the vendors of the product in the picture as nasty, insensible, ungodly and hard-hearted. The Yoruba of South West Nigeria says “Eniti ko ti ku, ko mo iru iku ti yio pa ohun” literally meaning that “a man who is alive cannot determine the mode of his own death” because at the end of the day, health challenges are no respecter of any human soul and those jubilating today because of the health problems of another person may be afflicted with the same medical problems in the morrow. Let us assume that the picture painted is not a photoshop or a political design calculated to show that a very formidable frontline contestant is not physically fit for a job. Let us for the sake of political cheap-point argue that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is suffering from enuresis as suggested by one of his critics or male incontinence. How does this medical condition prevent him from delivering his duty to the Nigerian nation? The cause of enuresis can be as simple as ordinary urinary tract infection which is treatable. One-fifth of children below the age of five years suffer from this condition. Nocturnal enuresis (bed-wetting) will happen to children and teenagers even up till the age of 17 years or a little more. On the other side of this is the urinary incontinence and dribbling after urination which may be a consequential complication of enlarged prostate, diabetes or Parkinson’s disease. It may also be a consequence of Transurethral Resection of the prostrate. Whatever the situation, the aforementioned is not necessarily worthy to be taken to the Théâtre for comedy shows. In fact, the shameless display of photographs to mock a victim of health challenges portrays our people as cruel, unkind, flippant and ungodly. It shows a nation whose leadership is immature, insensitive, hurtful and unworthy of emulation. Although, any issue can be a subject of discourse in politics but mocking and ridiculing the other man because of his health challenges is certainly far from an act of decency and decorum. By their fruits, we shall know them. Can an opposition that is degrading the heath of its rival be counted as capable of offering good and sympathetic leadership to the masses of our people when it comes to power? There are no indications that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is suffering from Parkinson disease for he looks physically fit and not mentally disorientated. On the other hand, one cannot pin diabetes on his hospital record card but even if he is, that would not deter his functionality as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. For mere academic exercise, let us assume that Asiwaju Tinubu is suffering from urinary incontinence which might stem from prostate surgery or overactive bladder. This is more or less a problem that comes with aging and it does not slow down the physical or mental ability of the individual to perform official functions. In fact, a good number of men have prostate enlargement from the age of 40 years. And that is the essence of regular Prostate-Specific Antigen Blood test after that age. Many men who suffer from this medical conditions normally perform their daily chores and routines activities with little inconvenience. Some wear diapers, some have catheter fixed and some carry urine bags while many go about with minimal inconvenience, except frequent urination. Globally, over 11.26 million men suffered from Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia in 2019, which is an increase from 5.48 million of 1990. About 50 per cent of men between ages of 51 and 60 years, 80 per cent of those in their 70s and 90 per cent of those older than 80 years will suffer from Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia during their lifetime. However, the solace is that BPH is not life threatening if it is benign. Ojewola and Ogundipe (2017) in a paper published in the African Journal of Urology, observed that the burden of clinical BPH is very high amongst Nigerian Men and the prevalence increases with age. Therefore, it is too early for those who are mocking the “Jagaban of Africa “ to rejoice because they may wake up tonight only to discover that despite efforts their urine cannot come out of the urethra. My hope is that they would be as lucky as the Jagaban. • Professor Ojikutu, is from Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Lagos 