Late last month, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State was conferred with a national award as the ‘Most Peaceful Governor in Nigeria’ by the Messengers of Peace Foundation. In his remarks at the event, which held at the Government House, Enugu, National President of the Foundation, Dr. Sulaiman Adejoh, said the honour was “in recognition of the governor’s zeal, steadfastness and untiring efforts at ensuring that there is calmness in Enugu State and Nigeria by extension. “We have taken note of these efforts because it is not ordinary. It takes somebody that has something upstairs and a man of peace to be able to use all the connections including God to make sure there is peace in his state,” Adejoh declared, adding, “And by the power given to you as the serving Governor of Enugu State, you have used your God-given ability to make sure that there is relative calmness.” According to Adejoh, Messengers of Peace Foundation are the organisers of the prestigious National Peace Awards, Queen of Peace In Nigeria/ Worldwide Awards as well as the African Peace Awards. “By June, this year, we will be going to London for first Global Messengers of Peace Awards in partnership with Her Royal Majesty, the Queen of England,” Adejoh disclosed at the event, which also had in attendance other members of the group’s delegation, including  Okokoro Ejiro (Executive Strategist, Queen of Peace); Jennifer Ijeoma Ezenwa (Manager, Queen of Peace); Caroline Ezeh (Member, Messengers of Peace Foundation); Charles Duhu (Member); Uche John Abonyi (Member); Martins Chinedu E (Member), Obiora Kene Akpanisi (Member) and His Royal Majesty (HRM) Eze Williams Ezugwu. “We are the only Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in the country now that has the responsibility of providing peace customised vehicle number plates to promote peace at the grassroots. “Your Excellency, we are here to identify with your success as the Most Peaceful Governor in the whole country. We have gone round, especially in the rural areas. We saw the good roads. We sampled opinions. We are going to send you video clips for you to see the positive things your people have said about you.” Responding, an elated Ugwuanyi, who described peace as the costliest commodity in life, declared: “If there is a commodity in the market called peace, nations are prepared to buy it at all cost. Because we entrusted Enugu State into the hands of God, we have seen God’s hands in affairs of the state. I dedicate this award to the Almighty God. I also want to say a very big thank you to you all for this honour.” To the Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province (Anglican Communion), Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, Ugwuanyi is also the most peaceful Governor in Nigeria.
Expressing gratitude to God for what he described as “the peace, unity and good governance being enjoyed in Enugu State under the administration of Ugwuanyi, Archbishop Chukwuma, who spoke at Government House, Enugu, during the inter-denominational Christian service organised by the state government as part of the activities marking the second term inauguration of Governor Ugwuanyi and his deputy, Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, maintained, “no state in Nigeria is as peaceful as Enugu.” Stressing that Ugwuanyi is a peaceful man who has reconciled leaders in the state and taught politicians how to forgive one another, Archbishop Chukwuma said: “Your Excellency, you have done well in your first term, most especially in infrastructural development. A lot is ahead of you (but) you have kept your word…” For Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao, Enugu State is the South East’s most peaceful state “due to Ugwuanyi’s support to security agencies.” In his message delivered to the Governor by the new Air Officer Commanding, Ground Training Command, Enugu, Air Vice Marshal I.O. Daramola, when the latter paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, to formally inform the governor of his assumption of office at the Enugu Command and reassure him of “our commitment to the security and development of Enugu State,” Air Marshal Alao appreciated the governor “for the support that you continue to provide to the Military in general, the Army, Police and to us the Nigerian Air Force. “It is this support that has ensured that Enugu has remained the most peaceful state in the South East geo-political zone,” Alao said. “That goes with the fact that the numerous legacy infrastructure projects you have put in place, especially the roads within Enugu and in the rural areas are part of those things that ensured the state remains secure.” 
 
In his response, Ugwuanyi, who stated that the Nigerian Air Force has always played a major role in the security architecture of Enugu State reassured the Air Marshall that the state government would continue to collaborate with the Air Force alongside other security agencies to effectively discharge their duties. 
 
In the same vein, rising from a meeting recently in Kaduna, a northern-based mobilisation group under the aegis of Coalition of Arewa  Forum  For Good Governance (AFGG), called on Governor Ugwuanyi to run for President, vowing to mobilise large numbers of women and youths across the 19 Northern states and beyond  to vote for him. Ugwuanyi, said the group, is the only candidate  from the South East “that has the requisite capacity and experience to establish a governance structure that will provide adequate security for the lives of all Nigerians, douse tension arising from secessionist bids created by imbalance of power and work to deliver Nigeria from the shackles of bad governance, retrogressive economy and under- development.”
 
In a statement signed by the coordinator of the group, Mal. Garba Yunusa, AFGG said: “In the interest of fairness, equity and justice, Igbos deserve to be given the opportunity to take a shot at the Presidency in 2023. “Though we are Northerners, we have resolved to support and back the southern Governors on their quest for a power shift to the south but with a concern that it must be the eastern region. “This is why we are mobilising our people to vote only candidates from Southeast  for peace to reign, especially amidst tension of secession by various groups in the southeast of Nigeria. “And for us, the best leader from the Southeast region is the incumbent Governor of Enugu State, who has strictly adhered to the provisions of the constitution by providing security for the lives of citizens and non-indigenes residing in the state over the last seven years. “We did not only hear from our northern brothers in Enugu, but also were adequately informed about the supportive role of Gov. Ugwuanyi in ensuring internal security in Enugu State and beyond. “We have equally seen  numerous legacy infrastructure projects put in place by the governor, especially in the areas of quality roads within Enugu and in the rural areas.” The group also scored the governor high in the areas of job creation, empowerment in education, health and socio-economic activities that have impacted people greatly.
Another Ugwuanyi’s value that excited the goup is his financial management and control. Under him, the group claimed, “there are no frivolous expenditures in government, either by his office or members of his cabinet. Practically every kobo earned by Enugu, either as revenue allocation or IGR, is accounted for to the last kobo. In other words, there is zero tolerance for corruption in the Coal-City State under the Governor, a quality of governance sorely needed at the centre.” It is in the light of the foregoing that the Arewa Coalition and other groups and individuals across the country are pushing for Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi to join the presidential race. Will the peace-loving, quietly efficient Governor of Enugu State throw his hat in the ring? Time, only time, will soon tell.
• Ozor, a public affairs commentator writes from Enugu.