Nicolo Zaniolo was denied late glory for Roma on Saturday after his stoppage-time winner against Genoa was ruled out following a VAR check in a goalless draw which left their slim hopes of Champions League football hanging by a thread. Zaniolo, considered one of Italy’s most talented players, crashed home a powerful low finish from the edge of the area in the 91st minute at the Stadio Olimpico and then charged towards the wildly celebrating home supporters. However the fans’ cheers turned to jeers when, after an on-field review by Rosario Abisso, Tammy Abraham was judged to have committed a foul when he stepped on Johan Vasquez’s foot in the build-up to the goal. Zaniolo, 22, was then sent off for his protests at the decision and had to be held back after the final whistle by Jose Mourinho, who later vented his frustration to DAZN. “If that is a foul then it’s not football anymore,” Mourinho complained. “We have to call it something else. We need a different name, because it’s a different sport.” A disappointing point at the Stadio Olimpico left Mourinho’s side four points away from the top four having played two games more than fourth-placed Atalanta ahead of their home clash with Cagliari early on Sunday afternoon. They dominated the play as expected but failed to create much against a Genoa team which was well-drilled by new coach Alexander Blessin but stays second-from-bottom and four points from safety. Not even Leo Ostigard receiving a straight red card with just over 20 minutes remaining helped Roma break through a wall of defenders, as Genoa closed ranks even further and picked up a second draw from two matches under Blessin. Roma are also three points away from fifth-placed Juventus, who host Verona on Sunday night with new boy Dusan Vlahovic set to make his debut for the 36-time Italian champions. On Saturday Juve coach Massimiliano Allegri said Vlahovic, who co-leads the Serie A scoring charts with 17 goals, is one of the best centre-forwards in the world, “alongside (Erling) Haaland and (Kylian) Mbappe”. The weekend’s biggest match takes place on Saturday evening, with a Milan derby between two teams chasing the title. 