Concerns over potential power tussle between the prospective national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and his state governor could be behind ongoing twists and turns in the search for an occupier of the position. It was gathered that the development contributed to the postponement of the national convention earlier scheduled for February 26. Following the reported zoning of the chairmanship position to the North Central geopolitical zone, a group of stakeholders, comprising governors and state chairmen, recalled the cat and mouse relationship between the former national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and his state governor, Godwin Obaseki. They, consequently, expressed apprehension that such a wrangle between a governor and future chairman could reoccur if APC produces the next chairman from a state it controls without the buy-in of the governor. The stakeholders included Katsina-based Northern APC National Front (NAPCNF) and Bauchi-based Coalition of North East APC Groups (CNEAPCG). They regretted that the crisis of confidence between Oshiomhole and Obaseki culminated in the loss of the state and warned that the scenario should not be allowed to replay itself. They contended that a massive awareness drive is being embarked upon to ensure that within the North Central states, a consensus could be reached in favour of Benue, which is being governed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to produce the next chairman. In their separate statements, both groups endorsed zoning of the chairmanship to the North Central. It would be recalled that after last week’s meeting of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), which was said to have approved the election of a national chairman from North Central, alignments and realignments of political interests began to dominate discussions in APC. Jostling by political forces also became defined because the chairmanship race had been narrowed down to only aspirants from the zone, including Alhaji Saliu Mustapha (Kwara), Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger), Senator George Akume (Benue), Senator Abdulahi Adamu (Nasarawa) and Senator Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa). In the clear five-horse race, APC faithful insist only the very best will be good enough to wear the crown and lead the party to electoral victories. A member of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) confided in journalists that key stakeholders are not just looking for a national chairman who presides over meetings at the headquarters of the party. He said they are also “hunting for someone who can match the assemblage of forces in the main opposition party in the country. Justifying the need for APC to elect a chairman with impeccable credentials that could match those of the PDP national chairman, he said: “Iyorchia Ayu, the current national chairman of PDP, is a former senator, who was elected President of the Senate during the Third Republic. “He later served in various ministerial positions during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s tenure between 1999 and 2007. Before his foray into politics, Ayu was in academia and was an activist, who rose to become the chairman, of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) at the University of Jos. “This intimidating profile is what some stakeholders in the APC are seeking to counter in their choice of the next chairman and incidentally, their political compass appears to be pointing towards Benue.” Also, a political analyst from one of the think tanks in the APC, who has been closely monitoring events in the party, disclosed that former Benue State governor, George Akume, has been mentioned in many meetings as a possible choice. 