The Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) has denied the report that there is conflict within the governing council of the institution over the sacking of the registrar and bursar. In a statement yesterday, the university’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Foluso Ogunmodede, while describing the story as false, said the rumour emanated from a blogger, Akin Akinsoluga, who titled his write-up “Confusion in FUOYE Governing Council Over Ejected Registrar and Bursar.” “The false report was being sponsored by enemies of progress to mislead the public with a view to creating chaos. But this has indeed failed woefully as such confusion existed in the bloggers’ imagination. “However, the ill-fated report by the jankara reporter, doing the bidding of his frustrated pay-masters, reads “It is reported that there is confusion and panic among the University Governing Council members over the termination of appointment of the substantive registrar and bursar.’ “Our reporter gathered that the Governing Council Chairman, Dr. Muhammad Lawan Yahuza and the management had received a letter from the Ministry of Education directing reinstatement of the duo within a stipulated time frame,” the university said. According to Ogunmodede, the report is outright lie as the Council did not receive any letter directing reinstatement of the erstwhile sacked bursar and the registrar. “Also, we want to reiterate that the duo of Olatubosun Odusanya and Bolatito Akande were sacked in strict adherence to the rules and regulations guiding appointment, promotion and discipline of senior members of staff/principal officers of the university. “The termination of their appointment remains legal and settled. No member of the university community takes any publications on the matter serious again. It’s only a source of distraction, a game-plan to derail our focus and slow down the giant developmental strides the Prof. Abayomi Sunday Fasina-led administration has been making within its first one year in office. “We are firmly resolved never to go back to Egypt again. No amount of lies, propaganda and blackmail can change that. To be sure, the Governing Council remains the highest authority of the university, which takes decisions for the Federal Government who owns the university. “It is obvious that those insinuating about a purported letter directing reinstatement from a minister are ignorant of the workings of the university system.” While no such letters exist, such a letter would not have been able to upturn the decision of the governing council, which represents the government in Oye. So, peddlers of negative rumour on the aforementioned facts better perish the thought of reinstating the sacked duo through the backdoor and on the pages of newspapers, and hide their faces in shame,” the university argued. The university insisted that the sack of Odusanya and Akande followed legal and due process as stipulated in the university rules and regulations. The two, it said, are advised to go to court to challenge the sack and stop seeking cheap sympathy by spreading falsehood in the media through some faceless reporters. The Registrar, Olatunbosun Odusanya and Bursar, Mrs. Bolatito Akande, were in April and June last year, relieved of their jobs by the university’s Governing Council led by the Chairman, Dr. Muhammad Lawan Yahuza. The university stressed that the Senate has no legal ground to upturn the decision of the University Governing Council, adding that such decision remains final and only subject to legal ruling or pronouncement by a competent court of law. “The legal process for appointing the new substantive bursar and registrar has already begun and would not be halted by any unconstitutional means. As a law abiding institution, we will always abide by and adhere strictly to the rule of law in all our dealings,” the statement stated. 