Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), Abdullahi Mahmud Gaya, yesterday, summoned officials of oil firms allegedly responsible for supply of adulterated fuel into the country. Gaya, who made this known during an investigative hearing on importation of adulterated Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) in Abuja, said it was incumbent on officials of the firms to explain their roles in the matter. He reiterated the resolve of the House to proffer solutions to challenges of fuel supply in the country. He added: “Even though methanol is a regular additive in petrol, it is usually blended to acceptable quantity. The recent supply is injurious to our fragile economy and the generality of our citizens.” But Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, Mr. Mele Kyari, who appeared before the lawmakers, absolved his outfit of blame since it was not aware of the presence of methanol in the fuel imported. Admitting that methanol is one of the additives used during the fuel refining process in Europe and China, he assured the lawmakers that the problem would not repeat again. In his words: “We regret this situation, which is unavoidable. We didn’t see it coming and we apologise to Nigerians.” MEANWHILE, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has warned the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration against “its continued insensitivity to the feelings of the people.” The opposition party said Nigerians are gradually being pushed to take to the streets against increasing hardship and unbearable conditions, particularly in the face of alleged attempt “to shield APC leaders behind the importation of toxic fuel into the country.” In a statement by its national publicity secretary, Debo Ologunagba, the party also condemned alleged “moves by APC interests to further siphon money from the national coffers by seeking to draw a staggering N201 billion under the pretext of cleaning up the poisonous fuel, instead of exposing the culprits and getting them to bear the cost.” PDP said: “Is it not saddening that the APC administration has continued to turn deaf ears to the cries by Nigerians to end its corruption and treasury looting spree and ease the suffering of the people, occasioned by its sleaze and manifest incompetence in governance?” It said Nigerians were shocked when news broke over the weekend that NNPC was seeking an estimated N201 billion to clean up the adulterated fuel. PDP alleged: “It is clear that this is another ploy by officials of APC administration to continue to pilfer the national treasury to fund APC’s rigging plans ahead of the 2023 elections, as well as finance the wasteful lifestyles of it leaders at the detriment of other Nigerians.” 