The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, disclosed that it has returned 11 houses recovered in different parts of Enugu State to billionaire businessman, Chief Arthur Eze. In a statement issued by EFCC’s head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujarem, the anti-graft agency stated that the recovered houses were returned to Eze at the Enugu Zonal office of the commission on Friday, January 28, 2022. He said: “The EFCC recovered the property from Olisaebuka Okechukwu Eze and Onyeka Nnadozie Eze, who served as managers of administration and finance in Arthur Eze’s firm, who were accused of breach of trust and diversion of funds belonging to Eze.” According to him, investigation revealed that the duo, who are nephews to Chief Eze, used proceeds of their criminal activities to acquire choice property in Enugu and other parts of the South East region. He added that during investigations, the EFCC initiated forfeiture proceedings against the two officials before Justice I. M. Buba of the Federal High Court, Enugu, which granted an interim order of forfeiture of the property and ordered the defendants to show cause why the property should not be forfeited. “In the absence of any contrary information, the court on October 18, 2021, ordered that the property be finally forfeited and returned to the complainant,” he added While receiving the property, Eze expressed gratitude to the EFCC for ensuring that justice was served, adding: “I am grateful to the Chairman of EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, the Zonal Commander and all officials, who fought for justice to be served. “I am aware that, at some point, your men risked their lives for this cause. I pray that God, who has been keeping you, will always protect you. I am here in person to thank you for all that you did for me when those whom I call my own, stole from me.” The Zonal Commander, Oshodi Johnson, who handed the property to Eze, was said to have commended the investigative and prosecution teams, as well as the judiciary for ensuring that justice was served in the case.