*Says Nigerian youths must rise to save the country Canadian-Nigerian actor, Pascal Atuma, has advised young Nigerians to rise and save the country by looking beyond religious, ethnic, and tribal lines to vote in the 2023 general elections. He gave the charges in an Instagram post to mark his 50th birthday. The 2021 Best Black Actor in Canada said: “As grateful as I am, I also have mixed feelings because of the adverse effects of tribalism, religious intolerance, bitter politics, and corruption in Nigeria, my country of birth. We have failed to attain our full potential mainly due to bad choices in choosing some of our past leaders. “I encourage all Nigerians not to vote along religious, ethnic, and tribal lines come 2023, and youths must rise and save Nigeria. The older adults are almost close to their heavens; the younger generation should say no to crumbs while our leaders bury Nigeria and the future of Nigeria before they depart. “Ethnic and tribal divides are common amongst most countries of the world,” he said, stressing that unity is the ability to pull towards a common goal at a given time. Referencing how world leaders use tribal sentiment to appeal to sectional support, Atuma contended that “weaponisation” of ethnicity is very much prevalent in Third World countries. “Evidence abounds that such leaders hardly can mobilize the entire country’s potential for growth and development,” continued Atuma. “Our inability to unite our country has affected our country negatively. Therefore, inefficient governance is a direct result and correlation of tribalism in Nigeria.” According to the Abia-born Atuma, tribalism contributed to the dearth of professional hands to build the nation. “Tribalism will raise primordial favours above rewards for good jobs done, creating a downward slope for Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” Atuma noted. This, according to the graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, would hasten impoverishment. To avert this, he said: “We must eradicate tribalism. Let’s unite the centrifugal forces of Nigeria beyond ethnic and sectional sentiments in the choice of candidates into public office. “Development and wealth do not speak the language of ethnicity; growth and development speak a universal language. Therefore, if Nigeria can look for the best men and women irrespective of tribe or religion, we will have a chance to rebuild Nigeria from its present ruins caused by years of ethnic politics and confusing religion.” “Together, we can build the Nigeria of our dreams.” Speaking on his birthday, the talent coach said: “I’m very grateful to see today, February 22, 2022, my 50th birthday. Permit me to express my gratitude to Canada and Canadians for finding me worthy to receive the Best Black Actor in Canada 2021 award. I’m incredibly humbled. Thanks to my agent Warren Beatty, my family, my beloved wife, friends, and fans for their support.” 