 The African Union (AU) at Expo 2020 Dubai (http://AfricaExpo2020Dubai.au.int) will host eight events in eight weeks as the world attention turns to the global showpiece for one last hoorah.  “From the onset, we set our sights on showcasing the incredible and continued opportunities that lie across the African continent and the ease in travel restrictions on member states is most welcomed, as it allows the African Union to continue with its strategic activities at Expo 2020 Dubai,” remarked Dr. Levi Uche Madueke, the AU Expo Commissioner General, as he looks ahead to a busy concluding two months in Dubai. As the celebrations of the African Union’s 20th anniversary continue, at the conclusion of the 35th AU Summit, where Heads of state and members of the executive have laid out – in great detail – the strategic framework for the year ahead, the activites at Expo 2020 Dubai by the African Union serve as the perfect launching pad for Africa’s 2022. “We are hitting the ground running, inspired by the 35th gathering of Heads of State and the commitments we heard, pledging support for more unified developmental activities of our continent and our Expo 2020 Dubai activities further advance the cause of fulfilling the aspirations of Agenda 2063 – alongside member states present here at Expo” concluded Dr. Madueke. The month of February is an exciting time for the African Union at Expo 2020 Dubai, with a number key events lined up, to spotlight the vast opportunities and developmental projects on the African continent. The first event, begins with the Spotlight on Africa, 'The Great Museum of Africa' (GMA) between 9-11 February, followed by Climate-Resilient Solutions for Greater Food Security, a Spotlight on Africa event taking place the following week, on the 22nd of February. The events calendar kicks up a notch, signing off the month of love with Africa’s Honor Day at Expo 2020 Dubai on the 27th. To up the ante, the month of March will serve as the perfect chapter to close off Expo, with no less than 5 events on the calendar. These include spotlights on Africa events led by Africa CDC, continuing their 5-year clebration whilst the African Diaspora community will gather to explore collaborative opportunities with the continent. This will be followed Inter-Faith dialogues, a high-level CEO roundtable before concluding with the ‘Prioritising Free Movement of Persons’ event, the perfect crescendo as the continent will prepare itself to welcome new partners and welcome back existing partners who have shown tremendous belief in the possibilities of the continent. The African Union’s updated list of events for the remiander of Expo 2020 Dubai is as follows: 09 – 11 February: Spotlights on Africa | Great Museum of Africa 18 February: Spotlights on Africa | Women and Climate Change 22 February: Spotlights on Africa | Spotlighting the Sahel: Climate-Resilient Solutions for Greater Food Security 24 February: Food from the Roots 27 February: Africa Day (Honor Day) 1 March: Spotlights on Africa | Evaluating and Building Resilient Health in Africa with the Africa CDC 13 – 14 March: Spotlights on Africa | African Diaspora talks 7 – 10 March: Spotlights on Africa | Inter-Faith Dialogue 14 – 15 March: Spotlights on Africa | Africa CEO Roundtables 15 – 17 March: Spotlights on Africa | Prioritizing Free Movement of Persons and Goods as a Key Milestone in Regional Integration  The public, media and all other interested parties can keep up-to-date with the latest out of Dubai as well as get all the necessary information surrounding the AU activities or events by visiting the official AU at Expo 2020 website: https://bit.ly/3LwJuDP Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Union at Expo 2020 Dubai. For further information please contact:
Mr. Lunga Kupiso
Public Relations & Media Officer – AU at Expo 2020
Information and Communication Directorate
African Union Commission
Tel: +251 115 517 700
E-mail: auexpomedia@africa-union.org 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Ms. Faith Adhiambo
Media & Communications Coordinator – AU at Expo 2020
Information and Communication Directorate
African Union Commission
Tel: +251 115 517 700
E-mail: ochiengj@african-union.org
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Information and Communication Directorate
African Union Commission
E-mail: DIC@africa-union.org
Web: au.int
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Follow Us:
Facebook (https://bit.ly/3GVpDdM)
Twitter (https://bit.ly/3uSksJh)  
Instagram (https://bit.ly/3Bkath6)
YouTube (https://bit.ly/34XGCyO)