Diamond and gold have no hidden place, they are globally recognised, sought after and celebrated. This is the success story of the nascent and fast growing Federal University Oye Ekiti (FUOYE), established barely 10 years ago along with eight other universities by the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Today, it has distinguished itself as first among equals and has beaten some older universities as a trail-blazer in so many academic endeavours.
  
It is delightful and inspiring that relatively young FUOYE under the leadership of Prof. Abayomi Sunday Fasina has a basketful of relatively uncommon records, some of which have launched themselves into the national lime-light and have engraved themselves in the consciousness of opinion leaders and leadership of regulatory and supervisory institutions in the country.
   
The latest in the trail-blazing record of FUOYE was made public by the ever credible and never biased authority whose verdict cannot be faulted, the Registrar of Joint Admission and Matriculation Board, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede who revealed recently that FUOYE is fifth most sought after university by admission seekers, among the 176 universities in Nigeria!  The university under the leadership of Fasina has in the last one year successfully designed a new and unique concept of part-time studies, that no applicant could resist and which has further made it highly attractive and could further increase its JAMB admission rating.   This part-time programme is completely novel, standard, noble, and completely ensures that the status of beneficiary-students, duration period for completion of programme are the same in all ramifications with regular students, including right to participate in the National Youths Service scheme. The advantages of this programme which is being coordinated by the newly established Institute of Part-time Studies, to the university, applicants and JAMB, is enormous. For instance it helps to indirectly increase the university’s student’s enrolment, boost its IGR just as it helps JAMB to mop up excess applicants who are qualified for admission but denied admission due to space’s constraint through the ‘regular’ admission process.
  
It is therefore no doubt that FUOYE made JAMB’s admission merit-list and is now the fifth admission destination for applicants.
Fanoro, a journalist, is a senior information officer at FUOYE. 