The Federal Government says the country will explore all energy mix to improve its energy generation and supply. Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI), said this at the validation workshop of the Draft Revised National Energy Policy and Related Master Plan, in Abuja on Monday. The minister expressed optimism that with the revised national energy policy, the country would improve its electricity generation and supply to boost national development. “It would also help us in our aim to build a strong industrial base for the nation. “ Nigeria is rich in energy resources with fast moving rivers, abundance of sunshine, wind energy, geothermal sources, bio-mass in addition to our huge deposit of natural gas yet to be fully exploited. “An energy mix that will utilise the wide range of energy resources available in the country is needed and must be pursued with vigour for the good of the nation,’’ Onu said. The minister assured that his ministry and relevant agencies were tracking researches going on in many countries in the area of nuclear fusion for energy use. He said the countries involved in the research of nuclear fusion were planning to achieve energy sufficiency in the future and that that Nigeria would join them to exploit the atom for energy supply. The minister noted that to guide energy development in a coordinated manner, a national energy policy and master plan were imperative. He disclosed that these important documents were always sought after by investors, development partners and scholars for insight into the philosophy and direction the energy sector is intended to develop. Mr Edet Akpan, Permanent Secretary of the ministry, was optimistic that the revised energy policy would help to raise Nigeria’s energy generation and supply. Earlier, Prof. Eli Bala, Director-General of Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), gave an overview of the Draft Revised National Energy Policy (NEP) and National Energy Master Plan. Bala said the National Energy Policy was necessary in order to provide the direction needed by the government to develop the energy sector and serve as instrument for periodic master plan. Mohammed Abdullahi, Minister of State for STI, said the revised policy should assess the impact of COVID-19 on renewable energy and provide roadmap for sustainable energy solutions. The Minister of FCT, Mohammed Bello, represented by the Executive Secretary of Federal Capital Development Authority, Shehu Ahmed, said the validation would complement the energy development of the FCT. 