Niger State Police Command has confirmed the killing of three people by gunmen in Ebbo and Ndagbegi villages of Lavun Local Council of the state. The Commissioner of Police, Monday Kuryas, confirmed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna, yesterday. Kuryas said the incident occurred about 5:00a.m. when the gunmen attacked the village. According to him, a detachment of police tactical squad and the military deployed to the area has launched a manhunt for the criminals. “We appeal to residents to assist security personnel deployed in the area with reliable information that could aid in apprehending the miscreants in their midst,” he added. RELATEDLY, bandits killed the Special Adviser to Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku of Taraba State, Levi Gbashi, in Donga Local Council of the state. The victim was reportedly killed on his way back from a funeral at a nearby village. The incident, which The Guardian learnt to have occurred on Saturday, at the time of filing this report, raised dust, as the whereabouts of the victim’s body remained unclear. Sources said the bandits fled with it. Confirming the report, the Chairman of Donga Council, Nashuka Ipeyen, described the incident as a rude shock to him and the entire members of the council. The chairman, who claimed to have briefed security operatives of the development, also said that special forces had been deployed to the area to halt the outbreak of crisis. Wondering why the hoodlums also decided to disappear with the remains of their victim, the soldiers deployed to the area, he added, are combing the bushes in search of the body Giving details of how Gbashi was hacked down by the hoodlums, Tortsua Naagh, who claimed to be travelling with the deceased on a motorcycle from the funeral, said they were stopped by gunmen on their way back. He said: “We were leaving the venue of the burial on a motorcycle when some young men stopped us and ordered us to kneel down. We refused to comply, as we bought time to attract the attention of the people around. One of them opened fire and shot at Gbashi three times and killed him instantly.” 