The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued Xejet Airline an Air Operator’s Certificate (AOC) in preparation for resumption of flight services. The new premium airline, with focus on Business Class services, was commended for adequate preparation for the certification exercise. Presenting the AOC in Lagos, Director-General of the NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu, said the tedious processing took almost a year to wrap up. “Having gone through this process, we are elated and delighted because what that means is that you have brought yourself to compliance and in conformity with our regulations. The issuance of this certificate means that you have complied with the requirements,” Nuhu said. The DG, who was represented by the General Manager, Air Operators Certification and Surveillance, Godwin Balang, said the AOC is one of the critical remits of the NCAA and it demands of all holders to uphold the standard. Certification Project Manager, Capt. Toyin Lawani, urged the new airline to put up a good showing going into the business. “To maintain an AOC is not as easy as the acquisition because from the moment you receive the certificate, you are expected to keep improving on your operations and maintenance processes. You must try and become an exemplary company in the industry, so that even the NCAA will refer to you as a good example,” Lawani said. Accountable Manager and Chief Executive Officer of Xejet, Emmanuel Iza, said the process was a learning curve for Xejet. “We have done it only once and I appreciate all the feedback. It has been seven years, two months and two days from the day I started the journey of Xejet. To the glory of God, today we have come to this milestone. I still cannot believe it. I just want to say thank you. “I also want to say that the covenant we have made to keep to safety compliance and to be good ambassadors of NCAA is not something that we put on paper alone but intend that those standards are being abided by. I know you have been thin on manpower but you are able to deliver within a short possible time,” Iza said. Xejet aims to offer travellers an enriching flying experience at a relatively affordable price. It wants customers to experience the benefit of a private jet with personalised service within the comfort and safety of a commercial airline.