Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, on Monday opened the newly-constructed N 2.7 billion Olaiya flyover in Osogbo, the capital, for public use. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oyetola and members of his cabinet performed a test run and the first drive through on the bridge. NAN also reports that the governor had in Feb. 2021 performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of the flyover. The governor also said during the ceremony that the Alternative Project Funding Approach (APFA) would be adopted for the funding of the project. Oyetola, while speaking with journalists, commended residents of Osogbo for their patience and understanding throughout the period of the construction of the project. He said the flyover was opened for use in fulfillment of his administration’s commitment to alleviate possible hardship the closure of the area might have caused motorists and other road users. Oyetola, who described the bridge as ”iconic and beautiful”, in view of its state-of-the-art aesthetics, assured of adequate maintenance of the facility. He said that security measures had been put in place, particularly around the bridge, to ensure safety for all. The governor said that no effort would be spared to continue to guarantee the security of lives and property of the citizens. “I commend our people, particularly the people of Osogbo and specifically residents of this area and those whose source of livelihood hinged on this area, for their patience, perseverance and tolerance that had helped to ensure the success of this project. “I also commend the contractor and the people of the state, particularly traders for their unflinching support to our administration in general and for their high sense of understanding that had culminated into the successful completion of this project. “We are not doing the commissioning yet, what we are doing is to open up the bridge for vehicular movement.
“I commend the Ministry of Works, internal and external consultants for the thorough supervision they have done to ensure quality delivery,” Oyetola said. In his remarks, the state Commissioner Works and Transport, Mr Remi Omowaye, said he was happy for the timely completion of the bridge. Omowaye, who commended the people of the state for their patience during the construction of the bridge, assured that government would continue to embark on infrastructural development in the state. 