 Tosin Odumosu Odusax Soulful saxophonist and facilitator of masterclasses on saxophones Tosin Odumosu known as Odusax is on a mission to win souls through his musical instrument with nothing short of soothing sounds that serenades the soul as well as gently captivating and relaxing the mind. He said the inspiration to release the video for his sophomore album, ‘Anointin’, came at a time he needed divine intervention and is optimistic that his listeners would also find inspiration on near dud issues and find a way out. According to him, the easy on the eyes video also serves as a reminder that everything gets better with God’s touch and also knowing that without the Anointing it can’t be done. In this interview, Odusax highlights his life journey, walk of faith and his music as a ‘passport’ to reach the world. What inspired the release of the song ‘Anointin’? The song was the title of my second album, released in 2016. It was a time when I needed so much help for my assignment. The inspiration came as I requested for intervention, an anointing from God. What inspired the title Anointin’? I believe every man has an assignment. Some see it as a vocation, others as services, some as solutions, while some see it as a contribution. No matter the way we look at it, it is what all of the heavens look to the earth for accomplishment. Now, to accomplish the supernatural assignment, supernatural aid, enablement, and support is needed. The anointing to function is necessary. In whatever vocation we find ourselves, anointing to be effective makes the assignment easy and ‘accomplishable’! How did you put the video together? Putting the video together was the easiest of all the tasks. Everyone I called came through for me. I spoke with my friend the owner of GAP STUDIOS at Victoria Island on my intentions, and he simply told me he will be ready whenever I’m ready. I spoke with my Keyboardist, who got my team together, called on the CEO of Energie, who shot my first video. We fixed a date for the shoot, and just like that ‘anointin’ video was done and dusted. It was a fruitful effort from a group of friends. Does your background (spiritual and physical) play an important role in the type of work you produce? Absolutely all the way. How do you find inspiration? Finding inspiration comes easy when you look properly. I find inspiration through other people’s music. I’m vast when it comes to music. Different genres have different meanings to me. Inspiration also comes when I’m rehearsing with my instruments, reading books, watching natural inhabitant documentaries, or taking a walk. Inspiration comes from everywhere. If you do not find inspiration then what you are doing is probably not for you. Apart from regular performances, what else does music do in your life? Music means different things to different people. To some people, it makes them stronger, some have found respite through music by making lemonades out of lemons. For me, music has given me a huge platform. It has given me a stage, a voice and of course I have had opportunities to meet people. What is the goal or goals of your music genre? For my kind of music, I want to build and instill confidence in my listeners. I also want to create an aura of genuine happiness around my listeners so that they themselves feel the positive change in their state after listening to my music. How has it been navigating the country’s professional music industry? It was initially tough, but now, times have changed and people and technology have begun to evolve. Access to social media as an element of propagation has significantly enhanced the music industry. Building an online presence and followership is now very much possible through the use of different applications. Now, we have a lot of talent cropping up and they can easily be seen and harnessed. The music industry has grown bigger than it used to be through its online presence. People can easily connect with different people around the world. Branding has also played an integral role in enhancing the industry. When I started, we paid so much money to book a studio session, pay studio engineers, pay session musicians to play and do many dubs and overdubs. Then we have to buy or rent the recording peripherals the recording companies will use to record our jobs. But today, a simple external HDD or USB stick will keep every data needed. Today I can do everything on my laptop. Times have changed and navigating has become quite easier Do you have a network of artists (songwriters, producers etc) that contribute to your work? Yes, I do. It is important to have these networks to bring out a good work of art. How do you feel about criticism of your work? Without criticism, it is absolutely impossible to do better, so I try not to take it personally. I process the criticism knowing my person is not criticized, simply my music is. I try to observe from the criticizer’s angle to appreciate what they are thinking. I show appreciation and move on. I know the reason I’m doing what I do is not for me. So, I require feedback to know how to do a better job next time. Furthermore, I try to be calm, understanding that any negative reactions may dissuade the critic from attempting to help me in the future. Are you looking at changing your style of music in the future? If there is anything constant, it is change. I am open to getting better, making more good music, evolving as I am directed to. So, there is a big room for changing my music. What I do now concerning music was not how I started. The saxophone is so expressive, I am able to express myself better on my saxophone. It gives me Can you give us an insight into to us the romance between you and the saxophone? the ability to decide and turn a piece of melody into something else that is the power of the saxophone enabling me to personalize my experience of music. It has also given me a choice of emotion, I can play the Baritone, tenor, alto and soprano depending on how and what I feel. It has given me so many opportunities to meet very influential people, I had a student who is a CEO of a conglomerate – he told me that there are days his job so stresses him out, but once he gets home, he eases off the stress by playing his saxophone, and he re-creates another world for himself, very true, the saxophone can allow another recreation. 