Amidst strike action declared by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), academic activities are still in full swing at the two campuses of Bayero university, Kano. The Guardian confirmed students still receiving normal lectures across departments and faculties visited on Tuesday in preparation for the first semester examination scheduled to commence Wednesday. Although, some of the students who shared their displeasure over the sudden declaration of ASUU strike are skeptical of possible disruption of the academic session. On whether, the nationwide strike would disrupt the examination scheduled to commence on Wednesday, a senior management staff (name withheld), disclosed that decision has not been made, whether or not the examination will continue. “Right now the university’s governing council is meeting. I’m sure you are aware of the fact that members of ASUU are equally full fledged members of the council. You should know that if BUK is presently on strike, the ASUU members among them will not be here. “And until ASUU declare strike in BUK before the university can categorically issue statement on the fate of the examination. Now, lectures are in progress and examination is scheduled, any student that refused to be in the class tomorrow while ASUU has not joined the strike will definitely carry the course over.” Efforts to speak with the Chairman of ASUU, BUK branch, Professor Haruna Musa, on the next line of action was not successful as the phone line was switched off. But a strong member of the union told The Guardian that an emergency congress of ASUU will hold Wednesday where action will be taken on the strike. “The normal tradition when the national body make declaration of this nature, the branch leadership will have to call congress where the message of the national body will be delivered and put to vote whether to join or not to join the national strike. So, the Congress meeting will hold tomorrow.” Meanwhile, the ASUU branch of Kano University of Science and Technology, (KUST) Wudil, were holding emergence meeting on the strike action as at the time of filing the report. KUST resumed registration of students for new academic session on Monday, the same day ASUU declared their nationwide four weeks warning strike. 