You’ve probably seen it all by this stage in the crypto market’s life, the senseless catfights amongst the dog-faced coins, and we can attribute a major chunk of their success to the meaningless cyber-fights. You’re probably familiar with the endless swaths of suitable small print that advises you to do your study, as opposed to the outright manner in which stock exchange corporations must warn you, with their bright as day ‘you can lose money from this’ mottos stamped on every image of a bunch of bills. If you’re a tourist, commuter, or general Tube enthusiast, you’ve probably seen the crypto-based advertisements that have raised more than a few eyebrows as you mount the Tube system’s ever-cavernous breadth. Or you’ve been squished into Time’s Square’s eternal expanse, where the glare of the advertisements is enough to blind you. I’ve heard the terms Safemoon (SAFEMOON) and HUH Token (HUH), among many other cryptocurrencies, more times than I want to remember, and I’m curious as to how this crypto advertising works and if it has any swaying power. They’re ubiquitous at this point, and the older I become, the less tolerant I am of advertisements… We are not the consumers of the early stages of moving image when the shock and wonder of the magic box was enough to entice us to our nearest bank, shop, or broker and part with our rent money. Would I be interested in cryptocurrency if some well-paid, well-oiled machine told me so? Let’s have a look at what we’ve got… Benefitting From Crypto? Like me, you’ve undoubtedly been charmed by the bait-on-the-hook strategy of perks and benefits, which appeared to be the case with HUH Token and Safemoon. If the holder’s unique code was utilised by a new holder, HUH would give them a 10% BNB bonus. I was surprised that these cryptos kept their half of the bargain because, in the uncontrolled world of crypto, it can be difficult to tell a scam from reality, despite a few prominent names. The success of Safemoon and HUH Token, on the other hand, appears to be gradually cementing the two cryptos into a condition of sustainability… Which is frequently the most important factor that an investor considers before parting with their rent money.  Shameless Crypto As my cynical heart softens toward the crypto world, I think I’ll be able to stomach a few crypto commercials here and there and continue to watch as crypto and blockchain technology are progressively used for far-reaching applications. Safemoon and HUH Token have a bright future ahead of them as they prepare to unleash hundreds more influencers on January 19th, skyrocketing the token’s value once more. Safemoon is preparing to enter its V2 stage, and its users are excited to take advantage of the additional features. If you’re interested in getting under the crypto skin then you can do so by clicking the links below, visiting exchanges where HUH is listed, like Bitrue,  a Google search or two, and some research before you invest… after all, the crypto market is often volatile, regardless of the iconic locations they’re advertised in. Buy On HUH Website – https://swap.huh.social/ Buy On PancakeSwaps: https://pancakswap.finance/ Buy On UniSwap: https://app.uniswap.org///swap Website: https://huh.social/ Telegram: https://t.me/HUHTOKEN