• 35 Players Listed For India 2022 Qualifier DR Congo Nigeria’s U-20 women national team, Falconets, will today host their Camerounian counterparts in the second leg of their fourth round fixture, slated for the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Both countries, on January 22, battled to a goalless scoreline in the first leg of the Costa Rica 2022 U-20 Women World Cup qualifier played at the Stade Reunification in Douala. According to the team’s coach, Chris Danjuma, the Falconets are ready for the match after putting in so much hard work in training. “We have no choice but to go all out for goals. The Camerounian team is a strong one but we have worked hard since returning from the first leg in Douala and I believe my girls will get the job done,”  “Danjuma told thenff.com. The winner between Nigeria and Cameroun will face the winner between Morocco and Senegal for a place in the finals in Costa Rica later this year in August. Today’s duel at the MKO Abiola National Stadium will be the first international game to be played since the Women Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match between the Super Falcons and their Senegalese counterpart in 2016. Meanwhile, Head Coach of U-17 girls’ national team, the Flamingos, Bankole Olowookere, has invited 35 players to the camp in preparation for next month’s 2022 FIFA U17 Women’s World Cup qualifying fixture against the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Flamingos began the qualifying campaign for the championship two years ago, after beating Guinea home and away, before COVID-19 pandemic compelled FIFA to jettison the process and cancelled the 2020 competition altogether. However, just like it has done with the U-20 Women’s World Cup, FIFA has retained the designated host nation for the 2020 event, India, as host for the 2022 finals. The championship will hold between October 11 and 30. The Flamingos will start their campaign for this year’s finals when they play away to the U-17 girls of DR Congo in Kinshasa on March 6, 2022. The return leg is scheduled for the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on March 19. Invited players include goalkeepers Christiana Uzoma (Nasarawa Amazons), Faith Omilana (Honey Baggers), Jessica Inyama (Immaculate Queens), Odinaka Nweke (Rivers Angels), while the defenders are Sharon Onwere (Skillful Feature), Loveth Boigyande (Honey Baggers), Vera Samuel (Royal Queens), Comfort Folorunsho (Delta Queens), Blessing Sunday (Edo Queens), Mistura Yusuf (FC Robo), Tumininu Adesina (Naija Ratels), Sandra John (Rivers Angels), and Olamide Oyinlola (Naija Ratels). The midfielders are Imoh Jones (Ibom Angels), Obianuju Akwubo (Osun Babes), Joy Igbokwe (Mees Palace), Taiwo Aseere (Honey Baggers), Mary Popoola (Sunshine Queens), Aminat Folorunsho (Lakeside Academy), Blessing Solomon (Taraba Queens), Taiwo Afolabi (Delta Queens), Cynthia Mega (Prince Eletu Queens), Miracle Usani (Abia Angels) and Olaronke Ola (Royaltom Queens). Priscilla Omeje (Nasarawa Amazons), Precious Daniel (Waco Girls), Alvine Dah-Zossu (Osun Babes), Halimat Yusuf (Kwara Ladies), Chidera Okenwa (Heartland Queens), Mercy Itimi (Bayelsa Queens), Aminat Bello (SGH Amazons), Kafayat Mafisere (Edo Queens), Raheemot Adebayo (FC Robo), Onyinyechi Kalu (Imo Angels) and Kesiena Ojiyoiwi (Osun Babes).
The players are expected to arrive the team’s camp at Chida Hotel, Abuja on Monday.