Tambuwal optimistic party will reclaim Zamfara, Presidency Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, and former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Ahmed Makarfi, have said that Nigeria is bleeding from the misrule of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. During Wike’s visit to Makarfi in Kaduna State, yesterday, to welcome him back to the country after a medical trip to London, the PDP chiefs assured that the opposition party would rescue the nation from collapse in 2023. The governor advised his host to join the trail of those who would rescue the nation from the gloomy situation the All Progressives Congress (APC) government plunged it, to ensure that PDP wins the next general election. “I thank the Almighty God that our leader, Senator Makarfi, came back hale and hearty to join us in the struggle to liberate this country from the hands of APC in 2023. He should not rush it. Let him recover fully and be battle-ready to fight our political foes and rescue Nigeria from them. “Put yourself together for this political fight. Nigeria is bleeding. If we are not united, Nigerians will not forgive us, because every Nigerian is looking to PDP to stop the bleeding. I advise everybody to join this fight. This is not about who wants to run for President. Let us rescue the nation,” Wike said. Responding, Makarfi, who once governed Kaduna, said Nigeria must be delivered from the hands of the present government to avert collapse. Lamenting the present socio-economic situation in the country, he pleaded with every citizen to join PDP stakeholders to ensure the party won the 2023 general election in Kaduna and all over the country. Makarfi told Wike and his entourage that Nigerians would be disappointed in the PDP if the members did not unite and take over power. IN the same vein, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has reiterated that the PDP will reclaim Nigeria and Zamfara State in 2023. Tambuwal stated this in Gusau, Zamfara State, yesterday, where he had gone to consult the party’s stakeholders on his ambition to run for Presidency in 2023. The Gusau visit is the second leg of Tambuwal’s presidential bid discourse. He had visited Jigawa State last week. According to him, the rollback of the fortunes of the PDP in leading Nigeria and Zamfara will soon be over. He observed that the reasons he left PDP in 2018 still subsist under APC. “Therefore, the leadership of the APC in the country must be challenged to make things work right.”