Nigerian ties at 32nd as Henseleit retains title
Nigeria’s brightest light in international golf, Georgia Oboh, has described the just concluded Magical Kenya Ladies Open as a great way to open the season, saying it gave her insight into what to expect in the circuit. Oboh, who finished at joint 32nd after four days of action at the Baobab Course at Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi County, opening the season in Africa has shown that she is not far off contending for titles. She said it has helped her to establish her goals for what she wants on the course and produce better results. Oboh added: “Tying for 32nd place is a decent start to the beginning of the season. I am able to put some pints on the board first…I was able to apply what I have been drilling into my game in the past season and so, I am glad that I was able to grow and develop more within a short period of time. “I am looking forward to the next event after a short break.” Defending champion, Esther Henseleit, returned to Vipingo Ridge to retain her crown, albeit in a hard way. Sweden’s Linnea Ström led after round one when she carded a 68 (-4) with France’s Emma Grechi in second place and Wales’ Amy Boulden in third. Day two saw four players go under par and Scotland’s Michele Thomson produced the round of the day carding a bogey-free 66 (-6). Ström stayed at the top of the leaderboard after posting a 73 (+1) while Spain’s Nurria Iturrioz was in second with four players including Thomson in third place. Heading into the weekend with Saturday as the traditional ‘moving day’, the defending champion climbed up the leaderboard after firing a 69 (-3). The German sat in third place alongside compatriot Sophie Hausmann on level par with Ström still out in front and Spain’s Luna Sobron in second. Back in 2019 Henseleit fired a final day 64 (-8) to win the competition but it wasn’t so simple this time out. After a bogey on the first, the 23-year-old found her form with four birdies on the front nine to see her in a tie with Ström at the top of the standings. Another birdie on the 11th put Henseleit in pole position but it wasn’t all plain sailing coming down the stretch. A bogey on the 13th saw her lead reduce and then the German found the water on 17, where she made an excellent up-and-down to come away with a bogey. Heading down the last the 2019 LET Order of Merit winner knew she had to make a par as she had a one-shot lead over Spain’s Marta Sanz Barrio, who was already in the clubhouse. Henseleit’s shot into the green went long and she left herself a lot to do to come away with the par, but the German duly delivered successfully defending her Magical Kenya Ladies Open title. 