Counsel for Rochas Okorocha, former Imo State governor, Ola Olanipekun (SAN) and Counsel for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), N. A. Dodo, have disagreed over adherence to court order on the release of Okorocha ‘s international passport. Olanipekun had submitted that the EFCC was going against the judgment in suit FHC/ABJ/CS/45/2019 wherein the court ordered the EFCC to release the International passport and travelling documents of the defendant among other decisions of the court Following the refusal of the Commission to adhere to the judgment of court, Okorocha, in suit number FHC/PH/FHR/165/2021, approached the same court for the protection of his human rights, which he argued was under threat. During resumption of proceedings, yesterday, at the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, following his application, Olanipekun told the court that on December 6, 2021, it entered a judgment in favour of Okorocha, but that instead of EFCC to obey the appeal, it contravened it. Olanipekun further informed the court that despite its decision that EFCC refused to release the defendant’s international passport and travel documents, saying: “Today it appears like no judgment was entered here.” But Dodo, denied that the EFCC contravened the judgment of court, adding that the commission had called Okorocha to pick his passport and travelling documents, but that he had not responded. He told the court that it only received the application from the applicant on Monday and asked for time to respond to the processes. However, the Trial Judge, Stephen D. Pam, expressed displeasure with EFCC’s attitude on the matter, noting that he would not tolerate contempt of court. “I take exception to disobedience. The EFCC should not do anything to the applicant until this matter is determined. It should obey the order and if it is not okay with the judgment, the commission should go on appeal. Pam, therefore, ordered EFCC to stop further actions against Okorocha and adjourned hearing till February 14, 2022 warning that all parties should obey the orders of the court. 