After a 24-month hiatus, the prestigious GTCO Lagos International Polo Tournament returns today with 30 teams vying for honours in four major cup titles. Speaking on preparations for the return of West Africa’s most prestigious competition, yesterday, Lagos Polo Club President, Ayo Olashoju, promised participants and fans of a never to be forgotten experience. He expressed delight at the return of the month long tournament, which was preceded by qualifiers in late January, saying, “In recent years, Lagos Polo Club is evolving. We keep showing how polo should be played in the 21st century, not only in Nigeria, but also globally. “With five teams competing in the Majekodunmi Cup, which is unprecedented, we have taken polo to a very high level that has never been seen in this part of the world.” Players from Argentina, France and South Africa, among others, will feature in the tournament, Olashoju disclosed, while assuring that all COVID-19 protocols are in place for the safety of polo lovers, who will thronged the venue. He revealed that two Lagos teams, Leighton Kings and Caverton, would jostle for the Majek Cup alongside Almat from Abuja, Lintex From Kano and Malcomites from Jos, while four Lagos teams will feature in the Open Cup alongside four others from Abuja, Jos, Kano and Port Harcourt. Also speaking on the event, Head, Group Corporate Communications GTCO, Oyinade Adegite, disclosed that her bank’s sponsorship of the tournament is a commitment to purpose, adding that at the tournament, things keep changing for good every year. She said: “For us at GTCO, it is about great customer experience. Polo is known as the game of kings and anywhere kings are, our customers need to be there. We look forward to be partners with the Lagos Polo Club for a very long time.” Tournament Director, Seyi Oyinlola, expressed delight at the  commitment of the sponsors, which, he described, as top notch, adding that this year promises to be much better in terms of organisation, standard of play and other areas. Apart from the four main cups (Majek Open, Low and Silver), teams will also vie for subsidiary cups, just as some new cups, including while Dapo Ojora Memorial Cup and Chief of Naval Staff Cup will debut.