• As company marks four years anniversary
Managing Director, KingMakers, Gossy Ukanwoke, is hopeful Super Eagles will defeat Black Stars of Ghana in the fast-approaching Qatar 2022 World Cup playoff to boost the betting business of his company, Betking. On Tuesday, BetKing marked four years of revolutionising the digital sports entertainment industry in Nigeria. The anniversary celebration was commemorated on the February 22, 2022 with the brand’s executives and its key stakeholders in attendance. “We keep looking for more ways to use sports as a tool to develop communities and empower people, and I look forward to all that we will accomplish in the coming years,” Ukanwoke. “Our prayer is for the Super Eagles to win the World Cup ticket because our businesses grow whenever the team is doing well.” Speaking further, Ukanwoke said: “Beyond betting, BetKing is dedicated to positively impacting communities where it operates, and these efforts so far reflect our ongoing commitment to revolutionise sports betting as we know it whilst creating impact across communities.” As part of the initiatives to mark the anniversary, the company planted four trees at its headquarters in Lagos. “These four trees signify four years of stellar operations in Nigeria and we hope that as we nurture the trees and they grow, so our brand grows with the environment feeling the effect. The planting of the trees symbolises our commitment to a better environment, growth, and enabling the entrepreneurship spirit within communities. With this, we are collectively ensuring a cleaner, greener, healthier and safer environment for present and future generations,” Ukanwoke stated. As part of its fourth year anniversary celebration, the company launched a campaign under the theme of “4 Years on the Throne,” which entailed several activities designed to reward its community of kings and kingmakers (customers and agents). According to the Chairman, BetKing Nigeria, Toyin Pinheiro, the group entered the African market in 2018 and has now grown to be a significant player in the region with a presence in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya and Ethiopia. 