Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) has assured consumers of optimal services and enhanced customer experience, especially with the commissioning of a new Shomolu Business Unit building in Onipanu, Lagos. Speaking during the commissioning, Chairman, Ikeja Electricity, Kola Adesina, said: “More energy means more customers enjoying longer hours of service. We are committed to long hours; we are equally committed that when a fault develops, we are able to remedy faster, and quicker, we want to make life more comfortable for our customers. “In addition to providing the required infrastructure that will strengthen our network and bolster services, our technical team is committed to further improve electricity supply to our customers, and this is our obligation to them. “The unveiling of the new Shomolu Business Unit office signifies that Ikeja Electric prioritises both its members of staff and customers. This building provides a conducive environment for our staff, enabling them to work better, think intelligently and strategically, while ensuring quality service delivery. “ Speaking on the challenges facing IKEDC, he said: “Payment and energy theft are the two problems we have. We are not agents of darkness, we are here to provide electricity; it is our duty and we will ensure that.” Also speaking, Ikeja Electric’s Chief Executive Officer, Folake Soetan, noted the company’s commitment to consistently improving service delivery to customers within its franchise network. While speaking on the company’s plan for 2022, Soetan said Ikeja Electric had resolved to further deliver efficient services through online and offline touchpoints, by attending to queries promptly and using innovative solutions that offer convenience and unique experience. She said the company would continue to redefine its operations with innovative solutions, while exploring better ways to work. Speaking to The Guardian, Manager, Shomolu Business Unit, Olarewaju Yusuf, said: “This project symbolises the quality of service we want to bring to every nook and cranny of Shomolu business unit and it symbolises our commitment to excellence that is visible to every customer.” 