 GE Healthcare and Kenya-based startup Afya Rekod (www.AfyaRekod.com) have announced a strategic collaboration that seeks to transform care delivery through improved access to personal health data in Kenya, Nigeria, and South Africa. The partnership will give patients an accessible record of their own health history, including radiological images, by enabling hospitals and diagnostic centers to host health records securely on one platform through a digital application.  This partnership will enable patients and clinicians to access data and generate clinical, operational, and financial insights that provide them with a more holistic view of the patient. This is a patient-driven platform that puts them at the core of all services. They can capture, store, access and own their health records, which has multiple benefits including reducing the cost of repeating medical tests. Both patients and clinicians will be able to access imaging files and test results through an app on their phones or browser without having to go back to the health clinic to collect the files. To protect confidentiality, Afya Rekod uses various AI and blockchain modules, and the patient maintains the sovereign right of ownership to their health data. John Kamara, CEO  Afya Rekod said, “Our vision is to put patients at the core of what we do. We want families to have access to their medical records virtually and access them any time, in a matter of seconds. The partnership with GE will allow for a seamless flow of data from the equipment directly to the app and into patients’ hands. The app will also allow clinicians to view data and share with other experts, enabling them to make better informed diagnoses and decisions. Eyong Ebai, General Manager Sub-Saharan Africa, GE Healthcare said, “With our collaboration with start-up Afya Rekod, we will work on data accessibility to help create insights for better, more targeted, more individualized patient care. Startups, the private sector, and the public must all come together to further Sub-Saharan Africa’s digital healthcare journey, to the benefit of millions of people. This app and partnership support that journey.” GE Healthcare has supported Africa’s healthcare journey for decades. From providing technology and solutions, to cementing partnerships and supporting training, the company is committed to continuous development across the region. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Afya Rekod. Find more images here: https://bit.ly/33L8g1I Media Contact:
Duraid Adnan
Duraid.adnan@ge.com
+971582440617 Zuhudy Hany
zuhudi@afyarekod.com
+254 726 256 700 Follow Afya Rekod:
Facebook – https://bit.ly/3LZDN1m
Twitter – https://bit.ly/35nxxzo
Instagram – https://bit.ly/3IkzDyJ
LinkedIn – https://bit.ly/3Hkl9xs
Website – https://bit.ly/3veJSRx Follow GE Healthcare:
Facebook – https://bit.ly/3hu3tFr
LinkedIn – https://bit.ly/358mKtb
Twitter –  https://bit.ly/3LWmM82
Instagram – https://bit.ly/33RCZug
Insights – https://bit.ly/3BK2iec
Website – https://bit.ly/3heUuHK  About Afya Rekod:
Afya Rekod is a health record management platform built to assist users with better healthcare services. The company's platform allows organizations, health providers, and medical experts to interact and connect with patients, even remotely, in real-time whilst providing tools to store, manage and analyze health records as well as manage hospitals and facilities. Afya Rekod is a patient driven platform built on AI and blockchain to help patients and health providers access in real time the  mobility of  health data.  Afya Rekod was founded in Kenya in 2019 and operates in Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Cameroon, Zambia and the United States. About GE Healthcare:
GE Healthcare is the $17.7 billion healthcare business of GE (NYSE: GE). As a leading global medical technology, pharmaceutical diagnostics and digital solutions innovator, GE Healthcare enables clinicians to make faster, more informed decisions through intelligent devices, data analytics, applications and services, supported by its Edison intelligence platform. With over 100 years of healthcare industry experience and around 47,000 employees globally, the company operates at the center of an ecosystem working toward precision health, digitizing healthcare, helping drive productivity and improve outcomes for patients, providers, health systems and researchers around the world.