Goalkeeper Mohamed Qotb Abou Gabal Ali, also known as Gabaski, was again the hero, as The Pharaohs of Egypt silenced hosts, Indomitable Lions of Cameroun, in the second semifinal of the 33rd Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) on Thursday night. In this report, GOWON AKPODONOR recalls a prediction made by the goalkeeper when The Pharaohs lost their Group D opening match to the Super Eagles of Nigeria at Stade Roumde Adjia in Garoau, northern Cameroun on January 11. Supporters of the Super Eagles increased their drumbeat, waving banners and their green-white-green flags. The Augustine Eguavoen-led Super Eagles had just won the battle of Garoua against The Pharaohs and Nigerians were in celebration mood. Virtually all the Egyptians inside the stadium wore long faces except goalkeeper Gabaski.
 
“Yes, we lost to the Super Eagles today, but this is not the end of the journey for us,” he told The Guardian, adjusting the white towel on his shoulder. “The Africa Cup of Nations is like a marathon race. There are many battles ahead of all the teams. Nigeria won this battle, but Egypt might end up winning the war in the end.”
 
Goalkeeper Mohamed Qotb Abou Gabal, Gabaski, plies his trade with Egyptian Premier League giants, Zamalek. His goalkeeping prowess gave the final ticket to his country on Thursday night, as he saved two penalties in a dramatic shoot-out against boastful Indomitable Lions, who were backed by thousands of their supporters. It was not the first magical moment for Gabaski in this tournament.  After losing to the Super Eagles in Garoua, Egypt marched on through the group stage only to be pitted against Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire in the round of 16. After 120 minutes of play, including 30 minutes of extra time, The Pharaohs needed the experience of Gabaski to scale through in the penalty shootout. He saved one of the Ivoiriens’ kicks.
 
Unlike the ugly situation in the Super Eagles’ squad, where goalkeeping problem continue to break the hearts of Nigerians since the departure of Vincent Enyeama, The Pharaohs have a way of benefiting from the men in gloves in the Africa Cup of Nations. 
 
Sixteen years ago, goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary saved Egypt from what could have been a long night of lamentation, when his goalkeeping prowess got the African Nations Cup title for his country. 
 
It was the 25th edition of the championship, and the hosts, Egypt, needed El-Hadary’s magic to win the title against a dreaded Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire, led by Didier Drogba.
 
Goalkeeper El-Hadary was 33-year-old when Egypt hosted the 25th Africa Cup of Nations in 2006. The Super Eagles of Nigeria was one of the favourites to lift that year’s edition of the championship, considering the calibre of stars in the squad
 
Just like the situation in Cameroun, Augustine Eguavoen coached the Super Eagles’ team to Egypt 2006. With a mixture of young and experienced players, including Austin Jay Jay Okocha, Wilson Oruma, Julius Aghahowa, Garba Lawal, Obinna Nsofor, Taye Taiwo, Mikel Obi and goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama, the Eguavoen-led Eagles were the major talking point for many African football analysts then. But the music changed on a day Didier Drogba inspired the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire to beat the Super Eagles 1-0 in the semifinal in Alexandria. The Ivoiriens suddenly became the favourites for the title. 