The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State has described the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) offer of its 2023 governorship ticket to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu as a ‘greek gift,’ saying it was laughable. However, a chieftain of the PDP in the state, Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, yesterday, said a former state Publicity Secretary of the party, Ganiyu Taofeek, who announced the party’s readiness to welcome Sanwo-Olu into its fold and hand him the governorship ticket spoke in his personal capacity and not for party. Spokesman of the APC in the state, Seye Oladejo, who acknowledged Sanwo-Olu’s performance, stated that the platform under which he was elected as governor was available to him to seek another term in office. He, therefore, advised the PDP to desist from its alleged perennial tactics targeted at promoting falsehood, blackmail and arms-twisting strategies to destabilise the ruling APC in the state. “While the thought of desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable, the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state of Lagos State PDP shouldn’t be lost on all and sundry. “While we sympathise with Lagos State PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it puts its house in order to have a semblance of relevance. “It’s pitiable that PDP could only think of fishing in the pool of capable talents in the APC while looking for people to offer its worthless electoral tickets. This underscores the lack of attraction in the PDP and admittance of its usual waterloo in the forthcoming elections,” Oladejo said. Dosunmu, however, maintained that the PDP was not a dumping ground for APC’s failures. He also declared that the party was not desperately shopping for its governorship candidate among APC defectors, noting that PDP has many qualified members that could lead the party to the governorship election in 2023.
 
He said: “There are people within the PDP that have antecedents, the pedigree and are qualified to seek any political office. The PDP is not desperately looking for people to join its ranks. However, people are free to join the party as there is a level playing field for everybody.”