Philanthropy is the desire to promote the welfare of others, expressed especially by the generous donation of money to good causes. Oyemonlan Benjamin Oseoje, popularly known as Trillbjm, is considered a genius in the financial technology sector in Africa, but his passion towards the wellbeing of others, particularly the less privileged, is beyond comprehension. Trillbjm consistently thinks hard about humanity and his dominant thought process is always how to pull others up. His goals are to become the most-desired software engineer in Africa’s fintech space and to impact lives positively through his many initiatives. The University of Lagos alumni is different in many ways from the youths of this generation, some of whom if they had earned half of the fame, accolades and accomplishment he has to his name, would have become globetrotters and flaunting lavish lifestyle on the social media. But the tech wizard generously and constantly gives to help the poor and less privileged, and has publicly expressed how much happiness he derives when he is able to show kindness towards others. Trillbjm is also a blessing to his colleagues, as he reaches out to the ones who need his influence and those who need support to make their dream come true. In a recent comment, Trillbjm expressed that he extends hands of love to strangers daily. “A random act of kindness to a neighbour/colleague/stranger; participating in fundraisers and charity events. Helping a child in need (I do this almost every day); volunteering to offer scholarships to some people that can’t afford to go to school. I also offer financial assistance randomly to people,” Trillbjm said. Continuing, Trillbjm added: “Engaging in philanthropic work gives you a perspective and shows you what truly matters in life. It also, consequently, makes you a better leader and truly sets an example for your followers to help others who, at that moment, can’t help themselves”. Good deeds are difficult to conceal, they germinate and produce better fruits. In 2021 when Trillbjm was appointed ambassador of West Africa Youth Council and also conferred the Nelson Leadership Award of Excellence and Integrity by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the body noted that he deservedly merited the attention due to his “high repute, serial entrepreneur and hardworking and goal-oriented personality with great interest in youth development and empowerment.” Kane Andrews is a PR consultant and wrote in from Lagos. He can be reached at hurrikaneandrew1@gmail.com. 