 African family entertainment centers, theme parks, and waterparks operators will stand to gain from the upcoming DEAL 2022 as it will showcase some of the most innovative and creative entertainment concepts. The 28th edition of the show is scheduled to take place at the prestigious Dubai World Trade Centre, during March 28th-30th. For more information on DEAL please log on to www.DEALmiddleeastshow.com.  “Africa as a continent is evolving and so are the economies within it. The millennials are looking for the latest entertainment concepts and they want to have the best entertainment destinations within their countries.  Their tastes and preferences are changing each day and they want to be at the forefront of the latest immersive entertainment concepts. With this change in behaviour they also need engaging and immersive experiences to support their entertainment appetite.  This has given rise to new gaming concepts such as VR and now they are further engaged by robots who can serve them food and beverages. DEAL 2022 is one such trade show that will help the African operators to meet with this burgeoning demand,” stated Sharif Rahman, CEO of International Expo Consults (IEC). With 300 plus exhibitors from across 45 plus countries, DEAL 2022 is all set to bring the industry leaders and showcase concepts that are developed with the current requirements of the fast-paced generation. “Africa’s population is set to grow to 2.3 billion by 2050. In contrast to the rest of the world, however, its booming population is getting younger. Experts believe that the next big thing for the entertainment and leisure industry especially in the African region would be driven by virtual reality technology.  Several DEAL 2022 exhibitors from across the globe would be showcasing a plethora of concepts that the African FECs and Amusement operators to choose from. Soon theme park enthusiasts strapped with VR paraphernalia, will enter worlds that were literally impossible to recreate,” added Mr.Rahman. IEC CEO further stated that, “This is a great business opportunity for mall owners, real estate developers and other stakeholders in Africa, planning to launch or grow their unique projects embedded with a gaming / entertainment zone.  DEAL 2022 will provide the right platform to create a win-win-win situation for the exhibitors, visitors and the end consumers who will experience these amazing concepts.” On the growth of the virtual reality concepts, Mr. Rahman, stated that,“ Today, the entertainment aspect is an integral part of any retail megamall. The key reason is to increase the footfall of people and eventually increase sales. The African stakeholders who visit DEAL can also visit the VR Parks in UAE to know the potential and also to know how they are growing their revenues. The facility can remain the same, however, the software and the games need to be upgraded and changed which is not as expensive as changing the whole interiors of the facility. In Dubai, there are many options for VR based rides in Virtual Worlds, Magic Planet among others, an exclusive VR Park in Dubai Mall has changed the face of entertainment in the city”. DEAL 2022 will take place within the mega World EXPO 2020 Dubai calendar months which is scheduled between 1st of October 2021 and 31st March 2022. The DEAL show organisers urge the participating exhibitors to plan their trip in advance to also witness this multi-billion-dollar event. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of DEAL 2022 (Dubai Entertainment Amusement and Leisure). For further information please contact:
Prem A. Ramachandran
Managing Director
White Water Public Relations
GSM: 0097150-4537253
PO. Box 18936, Dubai, UAE
Email: prem@whitewaterpr.com
Website: www.whitewaterpr.com About International Expo-Consults (IEC):
International Expo-Consults LLC (IEC) is an internationally recognized trade show management company with an impressive track record of over 28 years of operations in the Middle East and Asia Pacific region. The Exhibition arm of the Dubai-based conglomerate, the Falak Holding; IEC is the organiser of key exhibitions including Sign and Graphics Imaging (SGI), and the Dubai Entertainment, Amusement and Leisure show (DEAL). Falak Holding has been an industry pioneer for the last 38 years having diversified business interests including real estate development; retail – sports, fashion, home furnishings; exhibitions, medical diagnostics, trading and many more as part of its portfolio. Falak Holding is also a key stakeholder and investor in the prestigious Dubai Sports City project. For more information on DEAL please log on to www.DEALmiddleeastshow.com.