Three Nigerian delegation on Sunday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with two Pakistani companies at the Engineering and Healthcare Show in Lahore, Pakistan. The MoU was signed at the end of a three-day Engineering and Healthcare Show which was under the ‘Look Africa Policy’ of the Pakistani government aimed at fostering corporation in trade and commerce. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agreement was signed between Bajwa Pharmaceuticals Group of Companies and an Agricultural Manufacturing Machinery company called Agroasia. Mr Ahmed Yakassai, the former President of Pharmaceuticals Society of Nigeria, who signed a MoU with Bajwa, said that the agreement would promote exclusive distribution of genuine medical supplies especially anaesthetic products in Nigeria. He added that he will ensure that the products get registered with the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration Control (NAFDAC) for proper documentation. “So we will start working ahead to see if we can establish a joint venture manufacturing plant in Nigeria particularly in Kano State. “We are going to help fight fake drugs and supply high quality and genuine medicines, fight the issue of drug abuse because if we have the control we will be able to solve most issues pertaining to drug abuse. “Also, the aspect of manufacturing will generate employment for our young teeming youths because the value chain is huge and I am also promoting the production of active Pharmaceutical ingredient in Nigeria.” Mr Adnan Khan, the Director-Global Business Unit of Bajwa Group of Companies, said it was a milestone in the history of partnership between Nigeria and Pakistan especially in the Pharmaceutical sector. “As we have heard that the quality of medicine is the real issue in Nigeria, and bringing these quality pharmaceutical products into Nigeria by Bajwa will be an honour. “Also we will be sure that Nigerian health community is safe and I pray this increase our partnership not only in pharmaceutical products but in other areas,” he said. Also at the signing, Prof. Chimezie Anyakora, the CEO Bloom Public Health, said it was an amazing event for Nigeria and Pakistan and also for Africa as a whole because Africa have inadequate medicines to support the diseases in the continent. “Africa do not have enough quality medicine to cater for the various illnesses in it, from manufacture to supply,” he said. Speaking earlier, Mrs Rose Maballa, the Director General, National Drug Quality Control and Valuation Laboratory Cameroon, said the agreement emphasised the need to manufacture quality medicines in Africa. “They are internal medicine that are important for our country at this time of the COVID-19 pandemic , and I wish that this project is done soon to benefit the continent.” NAN also reports that Mr Micheal Ojediran of Bamadek International Company Limited also signed an MoU with Agroasia Group of Companies. He expressed optimism with the quality products of the company and looked forward for more collaborations. The Executive Officer of Agroasia, Mr Atif Rehman, lauded the collaboration and assured the Nigerian delegation of quality products. 