Disturbed by prevailing insecurity in the polity, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, declared that the conduct of free and fair elections in the Nigeria next year would depend on existing environment. Besides, the electoral umpire vowed to disqualify any political party that fails to comply with the Electoral Act in the conduct of primaries. INEC’s National Commissioner for Information and Voter Education (IVEC), Festus Okoye, raised the alarm at the opening of a capacity-building workshop for heads of voter education, publicity and public affairs officers of the commission in northern region holding in Kano. Explaining that security concern has limited the capacity of the agency to 811 locations out of 2,673 areas earmarked to carry out the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) nationwide, he cited similar challenges hindering the commission to conduct elections to fill vacancies in Zamfara and Kaduna houses of assemblies. INEC insisted that unless relevant security stakeholders rise to neutralise the brewing threat and assure the people of peaceful atmosphere and elections in the troubled Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) areas in 2023, there might be problem. Okoye, who chided what he considered as total disregard of Electoral Act and INEC’s guidelines on party primaries, reminded that any party might be disqualified for fragrant abuse of the process. IN another development, a coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) has urged the electorate to deploy representation, law-making and oversight stewardship appraisals for accountability from members of the Ninth National Assembly. The (organisations are Fix Politics Initiative; CISLAC; Centre LSD and Social Action.  Others are AFRICMIL, Accountability Lab; PLSI; Spaces for Change; CNC; WEWE Network Afrique; ICIR and OrderPaper Advocacy Initiative. They are advocating legislative governance as an instrument for elevating the citizen to his/her/rightful place in the nation’s democracy. Briefing reporters in Abuja, the Executive Director, FixPolitics, Anthony Ubani, on behalf of others, said its members are united by the need to promote legislative accountability and healthy partnerships for the common good of all Nigerians.