Goat farming plays a very important role in the economy of the traditional smallholder farming system in Nigeria. This is not unconnected to its huge domestic demand as one of the main meat and milk-producing animals. Aside being one of the choicest meat and milk source, goat meat is enormous among health conscious people because of its low cholesterol content.
  
As goat farming is expanding for both domestic and commercial purposes across the world, a good number of breeds have evolved over the years. These include Red Sokoto; Sahel; Alpine; Spanish; Saanen and West African Dwarf (WAD), among others, but one of the best strains widely accepted in Africa and a number of continents is the WAD goats.
   
It was learnt that while some of these breeds are famous for milk production and production of quality skins and fiber, the WAD breed, aside producing milk and meat, has high genetic reproduction, production potential and good leather for export market.  Omidiran added that only few farmers are into the venture, breeding the goats on a commercial scale. He said: “I suspect that the South South and the Southeast might have more breeders because they eat goats more than the Southwest. I remember that one development agency approached me before on a similar project in the Southeast.
 
“The Southwest is losing better source of protein, because goat meat has always been a good source of protein. It is also known to have better meat. We are losing lots of revenue by not growing and harnessing the economic impact of goats rearing in the region.”
 
Omidiran advised farmers and other stakeholders in the goat industry in the region, to make conscious efforts to revive breeding of the WAD goats on a commercial scale, to avert the looming extinction of the breed in the region.
 
Another farmer, Alhaji Ayinla Kamoru, a resident of Owode-Ota, Ogun State, identified animal theft, urbanisation and financial pressure as some of the challenges causing the decline of the breed in the country.
 
 While noting that reviving the rearing of the breed can contribute immensely to the economy of the region and also assist the farmers financially, he added that if government and agriculture research institutes can initiate interventions, youths will be encouraged to embrace the venture.
 
“The flocks are becoming smaller at a faster rate and some farmers are opting out for another line of business. I believe that if the industry is in a good state, it will open a new vista of opportunity for the region.