The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), yesterday, confirmed Senate Minority Leader, Eyinnaya Abaribe’s comment that Nnamdi Kanu did not order for Monday sit-at-home in the South East. Abaribe recently said that Kanu denied issuing the directive at a meeting with him, former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu and two clerics at the Department of State Services (DSS) headquarters in Abuja. Lately, residents of the South East have been observing the sit-at-home directive on Mondays and whenever Kanu is scheduled to appear in court. But IPOB had distanced itself from the sit-at-home order, warning that those behind its enforcement would be sanctioned. However, spokesman of IPOB, Emma Powerful, restated the group’s stance on the issue and cautioned those enforcing the order, adding that in spite of its cancellation, they would regret their actions. In a statement issued yesterday, Powerful declared: “Comments from Abaribe are true, because we stated it before now that Kanu, through his lawyers had asked IPOB members and its leadership to stop the Monday sit-at-home order. “Those purportedly enforcing the directive have been killing and burning property of Igbo people and they will incur the wrath of IPOB in due course.” The group expressed concern that the Monday sit-at-home order was still being observed in the South East, despite its cancellation, and therefore, dissociated itself from those enforcing the order, insisting that they were not members of IPOB. It also urged the people to ignore the enforcers and go about their normal businesses, maintaining that they were enemies and traitors in the struggle for the liberation of Ndigbo. “We are watching them because soon their cups will be full and overflow. If you know you are truly for Biafra freedom, don’t fall into the group of liars and deceivers, because the truth will soon emerge. “They will soon regret their actions, because they are not IPOB members and don’t know or understand what IPOB is capable of doing. They must regret what they are doing in our land. Their actions are detestable to God and man. Such people have nothing in common with IPOB,” the statement added. IPOB pointed out that Abaribe’s recent information and statement had vindicated its legal team, who obliged the information from its lawyers who indicated how Kanu instructed the group to stop the  sit-at-home directive.