Just like yesterday, it’s already 20 years since the horrific bomb blast explosions that rocked the Ikeja Military Cantonment, Lagos State and shattered the serenity of a cool Sunday evening leaving in its wake not only sorrow, tears and blood, but deaths, numbering over a thousand lives. Anyone in Lagos will always remember with great clarity what he was doing on January 27, 2002, at the precise moment when loud bangs and tremor vibrating through buildings rock the entire city. At about 5:15pm on that fateful day, the explosions were triggered by a fire outbreak in the nearby Mammy Market, which was also home to the families of soldiers living in the barracks. Soon after, high caliber bombs stored in the armoury of the cantonment began to detonate in quick successions.  A senior journalist who covered the sad event for The Guardian, Ehichioya Ezomon, recalled: “Apart from reporting on the millions that fled through the Oshodi-Apapa expressway that evening/night, I took it upon myself to cover the developing story on a daily basis. “In one of the coverages, I crossed that canal, through the very point from which many of the victims crossed, some in the dark, perhaps not realizing the depth, which is neck deep. This was why many of the panic-stricken people trying to rush (wade or swim) across at the same time drowned on their own, while others were pushed or trampled upon” in the process. “Later in that week, I covered a heart-rendering scene in which a father grieved over the recovered body of his son of about 10 years, coincidentally at the spot on which the cenotaph for the victims stands today.”
 
Stampedes in other parts of the city killed hundreds more, most of them children separated from their parents. Approximately 5,000 people were injured in total, overwhelming the city’s hospitals. Explosions continued throughout the night. Due to a lack of firefighters in Lagos, the blazes were not contained until more than 24 hours later. At least 12,000 people were left homeless by the disaster.
 
Afterward, the commander of Ikeja issued a statement: “On behalf of the military, we are sorry … efforts were being made in the recent past to try to improve the storage facility, but this accident happened before the high authorities could do what was needed.”  In 2017, the Lagos State government had promised that the Ejigbo Jetty, built in 2014, would be completed and put to use before June 2018. But five years after, it is still a promise waiting to be fulfilled. The pledge was then made on behalf of the state by the Special Adviser to the then governor, Akinwunmi Ambode on Community and Communication, Mr. Kehinde Bamgbetan. Bamgbetan, whose administration as chairman of Ejigbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) built the jetty, had said dredging and the Faseun wooden link bridge was the only impediment hindering the operation of the jetty. The chairman of Ejigbo LCDA, Monsuru Oloyede Bello, said the jetty project was not abandoned, adding that the council was making moves to ensure that the bridge was reconstructed for the jetty to commence operations. Olaiya is the News Editor of The Guardian