 Ikogosi Warm Spring ,Ekiti-State February has a fragrance, and it is the smell of valentine. Valentine is always anticipated worldwide by many people, especially lovers. This celebration can be tasking when thinking of the gifts to give to a partner. Are you on a low budget this valentine, and you can not afford to make an international trip? Well, Nigeria has got you covered on some travel spots as a romantic gift to lovers of this valentine. Ikogosi Warm Spring Ekiti state is home to Ikogosi spring, a lush and rustic spring with chants of chirping birds. Ikogosi spot is a great place to renew lovers’ desires when surrounded by nature. Its beauty draws tourists, making it the most sought after site in Ekiti state. Ikogosi is not called the warm spring for no reason. Based on research, it is said to have a temperature of about 70 degrees Celcius at the source and 37oC at the confluence. Ikogosi warm spring flows alongside a cold spring that meets the warm water at a confluence, maintaining their temperatures. Kajuru Castle The Kajuru castle is a beautiful medieval style resort set for a King and his Queen this season. The castle is surrounded by the Kajuru village in the commerce city of Kaduna. This runaway scenery is great for couples expecting a romantic hangout with an awe-inspiring view. This spot is nature’s best friend that comes alive in the sparkling night. Kajuru castle is ready to serve your needs with a sauna provision to loosen tight nerves. Kajuru castle, Kaduna. Photo Princess Audu Le Méridien Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort Popularly known as the pride of Uyo, the five-star rated golf resort is positioned on top of a palm vegetation. This tremendous sight above the tropical forest stretches forth to the mountain of Cameroon. This exceptional resort is known for its 18-hole golf course. The on-site eating place offers one of the most mouth-watering indigenous large-scale dishes in the country. Le Meridien Ibom Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort Ibeno Beach Akwa Ibom still has great places to chill this valentine season like the Ibeno beach. From the brush of the soothing breeze from the beach on your skin to the sound of the thriving waves, and the pleasuring sight of fresh flora of the mangrove forest. This is the destination with an unbelievable charm for couples. This delightful destination for tourists is great for lovers feeling the valentine. It is a mass of 245km on a sandbank. Ibeno beach is the desired haven that creates the perfect hangout spot for couples seeking a great time away from the world. Ibeno-beach. Ngwo Pine Forest Are you and your partner seeking adventure? Play with Mother Nature in this exceptional forest empire that is found in Ngwo Pine. It is an enormous attraction for guests, lovingly placed by Mother Nature with sharp twists for adventure seekers to indulge in and superb to play peek-a-boo with your partner. This skilfully set pine trees and the graceful flowing stream with a shrill splash of the waters inside the dim cleft inside a cave are awe of the mind’s eye for lovers. Ngwo Pine Forest,Enugu.Photo Biabol Travels and Tours Awhum Waterfalls Awhum in Enugu state prides itself in abundant immaculate lakes and waterfalls. The cascading waterfall forms a gorgeous landscape where water cascades above to form a stream, which has become a favourite tourist site. Omu Resort Impress your partner by visiting the Omu Resort. Situated at Asiwaju Bola Tinubu Way, the resort offers an unrivalled Africa safari experience with a warm atmosphere, friendly staff and fine cuisine complementing the excellent game viewing. This is one of the most thrilling getaways for valentine’s day. Be ready to see the famous Africa “Big Five” in the zoo, and partake in various activities such as karting, archery, golfing and much more. We recommend at least 3 days for a memorable experience that you will treasure forever. La Manga Beach La Manga Luxury Beach Villas is a favourite resort in Lagos. It is a little piece of bliss nestled close to the length of the perfect Atlantic Ocean on the stunning and attractive Island of Ilashe in Lagos. The place is truly eye-catching! With just a 15-minute boat ride from Ikoyi and Victoria Island, La Manga Luxury Villas is enclosed by delicious and gigantic coconut palm trees and show off stunning views that are sure to lift the atmosphere of you and your partner. It is an ideal destination to splurge on Valentine’s Day, with the calm setting creating a perfect place for lovers to cradle. The resort’s fine-looking foundation is huge and includes the number of services and activities it has to give like the jet-ski, boat cruise and previous water sports. La Campagne Tropicana A visit to the ultra-luxury service at La Campagne Tropicana will have a lover coming back for more. Located in Ijegun, Lagos, this is a great place for lovebirds to hear each other’s thoughts. The service is merged with an African themed hospitality meeting grand luxury. A great romantic hideout, its location brings the best view of the setting of the sun upon the breathtaking Atlantic Ocean. Outdoor activities like diving into the gorgeous ocean and other forms of games will keep you active. Whispering Palms Resort In the heart of Badagry in Lagos, this resort provides a great time for lovers. The mind-blowing scenery of nature in its prime is all your partner needs and will thank you for it. With tall dancing palm trees and chirping birds singing for lovers, and a zoo in the midst of it all, the resort offers unique cuisine to feed your appetite. As an on-site lodging at the resort, it has roomy and comfortable lounges for visitors to loosen up and unwind, plus a well as a model swimming pool.