Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has assured traders, who lost their shops in the demolished Eke-Ukwu Main Market on Douglas Road, Owerri, of priority during the allocation of stalls. The Guardian reports that the state Commissioner for Commerce, Simon Ibegbulem, stated this in Owerri, yesterday, when he led a team of journalists to inspect the project. Ibegbulem said that the project, which was over 40 per cent completed, would be rounded off and inaugurated by December 2022. He said the market, which is located at the heart of Owerri metropolis, was pulled down by former Governor Rochas Okorocha’s administration, adding that the market had 2,925 lock-up stalls and would have modern facilities, a bank, police post and fire service, among others, when completed. He said on completion, the state government would collaborate with the market association to ensure that traders, who lost their shops in the demolished market, were prioritised during the allocation of stalls. “There are at least 200 Owerri indigenes, who lost their shops in the old market. Such people and other original shop owners would be given price concession. “For instance, if a shop would go for N2 million or N3 million, they may be asked to pay less, as a way of compensating them for their losses,” Ibegbulem said. Speaking, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, explained that the governor decided to rebuild the facility, because it remained the only Owerri ancestral market. “When the governor assumed office, Owerri people visited him and lamented the abandonment of the market after it was demolished. They pleaded with him to rebuild their only ancestral market and the governor assured them that he would rebuild it. So, he has fulfilled his promise,” Emelumba said. He further said the project was being executed through a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. Emelumba also conducted journalists round the fashion cluster, being built by the state, in conjunction with the Federal Government to promote small and medium enterprises. The Guardian learnt that the facility is equipped with over 500 modern machines for sewing and designing and solar panels for 24-hour electricity supply. Emelumba said the facility would provide the platform for trained tailors and fashion designers, who had no capital to acquire their own machines, to rent and do their businesses. He said the state government also gave N250, 000 startup capital to 1,500 youths, who were trained in dressmaking, hairdressing, shoemaking and welding, among others. 