Download logo A reception to celebrate the 62nd anniversary of Imperial Majesty of Japan was held, today, at the residence of the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan, Mr Shuichiro Kawaguchi, in Floréal.  The President of the Republic of Mauritius, Mr Prithvirajsing Roopun; the Vice-President of the Republic of Mauritius, Mr Marie Cyril Eddy Boissezon; the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius, Mr Pravind Kumar Jugnauth; several Ministers and Members of the Diplomatic Corps were present. At the very outset, President Roopun offered a toast to the good health of the Imperial Majesty of Japan and to the wellbeing and prosperity of the people of Japan while Mr Kawaguchi toasted to the happiness and prosperity of Mauritius. In his address, the Ambassador expressed his sympathies to those who have suffered from the recent cyclones which have impacted Mauritius. He highlighted that it is a matter of pride that the radar system which was donated by Japan as well as the assistance provided by Japanese experts have been useful to Mauritius during these times. Speaking about the bilateral relations between Japan and Mauritius, Mr Kawaguchi stressed that the Government of Japan intends to take the relations to greater heights through financial assistance and the exchange of expertise between the two countries. He outlined some assistance given by the Government of Japan, namely: a grant assistance of some Rs 476 million to enhance the maritime safety and security of Mauritius; and the visit of the Chief Executive Officer of Mitsui O.S.K Lines Ltd, Mr Junichiro Ikeda, to Mauritius in a bid to engage in fruitful discussions with several dignitaries including businessmen in Mauritius where many ideas for cooperation cropped up. Furthermore, the Japanese Ambassador reiterated his commitment as Ambassador of Japan to Mauritius to attract more Japanese investors and tourists to Mauritius as well as to organise more cultural exchange programmes this year to bring the two nations closer. Mr Kawaguchi underlined that the Government of Japan extends its hands of friendship to Mauritius and expressed hope for additional cooperation and progress as regards the bilateral relations so as to bring more benefits to the two countries. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Republic of Mauritius.