Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has opposed the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) position over the professorial appointment of Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Ali Pantami. ASUU had declared the appointment by the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) “illegal”, a description MURIC called “joke of the century”. MURIC director Prof Ishaq Akintola in a statement said the union has no right to overrule a decision approved by an institution’s Appointment and Promotion (A & P) committee and the council. Akintola accused ASUU of trying to usurp the powers of universities. “ASUU national should know its limits. Is there any section of ASUU constitution which empowers it to override appointments made by universities? This is an affront. No more, no less,” Akintola said. “The last time we checked, the power of appointment rests with A & P Committee of each university and pronouncement rests with the council. “No university worth its salt will consult ASUU over issue of promotion or appointment. Where did ASUU national get this absurd idea? “When last did ASUU wade into procedures for promotion or appointment of any university? What we know of is that lecturers who feel wronged on promotion issues may report their university to the local ASUU. “Is it a witch-hunt? Is ASUU dancing to the gallery by championing the hate campaign of a section of the country? But will ASUU be able to carry all its branches along?.” Akintola suggests that ASUU leadership will divide the body again if it continues this way – of bullying from the center. He said he expects ASUU national to have learned its lesson of the difference between fighting the collective cause of all members and fighting your own member or a particular branch. “This is a fight you cannot win. What came out of the conflict between ASUU national and its UNILORIN branch? Who blinked first? Ilorin dealt with ASUU national and got away with it,” Akintola said. The MURIC said ASUU’s threat to sanction FUTO is an empty threat, saying “unions are not held together by the force of threats but good leadership.” “Besides, Professor Pantami’s work at FUTO is a voluntary work that attracts no payment and this has a place in the rules of the civil service,” Akintola said. “Neither is the minister doing it without the knowledge and approval of Mr. President.” 