The Nigerian government on Thursday said it has uncovered 96 financiers of terrorist groups Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP). Nigeria’s information and culture minister Lai Mohammed made the disclosure at a press conference in Abuja. READ MORE: Tension as U.S. moves to name Boko Haram sponsors “Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), in 2020-2021, revealed 96 financiers of terrorism in Nigeria,” Mohammed said. Mohammed said the NFIU had intelligence exchanges on Boko Haram, ISWAP, banditry, kidnapping and others with 19 countries. The minister disclosed that 424 associates and supporters of the financiers were also uncovered. READ MORE: UAE puts six Nigerians with ties to Boko Haram on terrorist list Mohammed said about 123 companies and 33 Bureau de change were linked to terrorists in addition to 26 suspected bandits/kidnappers and seven co-conspirators who have now been identified. He disclosed that an “analysis has resulted in the arrest of 45 suspects who will soon face prosecution and seizure of assets.” Meanwhile, authorities in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in September named six Nigerians with ties to Boko Haram as terrorist financiers. Nigerians on the UAE’s terrorism list were Abdurrahaman Ado Musa, Salihu Yusuf Adamu, Bashir Ali Yusuf, Muhammed Ibrahim Isa, Ibrahim Ali Alhassan and Surajo Abubakar Muhammad. The six persons have been previously tried and sentenced in UAE. The UAE Cabinet issued Resolution No 83 of 2021, designating a total of 38 individuals and 15 entities on its approved list of persons and organisations supporting Boko Haram and other terrorist cause. UAE news agency reported that the resolution underscored the country’s commitment to target and dismantle networks that finance terrorism and its related activities. The resolution demands that regulatory authorities monitor and identify any individuals or entities affiliated with or associated with any financial, commercial or technical relationship and take the necessary measures according to the laws in force in the country in less than 24 hours. In April 2019, an Abu Dhabi federal court of appeal sentenced both Surajo Abubakar Muhammad and Saliuh Yusuf Adamu to life imprisonment followed by deportation. Ibrahim Ali Alhassan, AbdurRahman Ado Musa, Bashir Ali Yusuf and Muhammad Ibrahim Isa, were each sentenced to 10 years in prison, and also followed by deportation. The court found them guilty of setting up a Boko Haram cell in the UAE to raise funds and material assistance for the insurgents in Nigeria. 