Oyetola insists his performance will earn him second term An Osun State governorship aspirant, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, has vehemently opposed the decision of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee to shift backward the date of the party’s primary from March 5 to February 19, this year. Adeoti, who spoke with reporters at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja shortly after he was screened to vie for the seat, said the development calls into question the party’s commitment to the conduct of a free and fair primary. He wondered why the Buni-led caretaker committee did not follow a similar pattern when it shifted the recently-held Ekiti State governorship primary from January 17 to January 27, 2022. Adeoti faulted the continued membership of Governor Gboyega Oyetola as a member of the APC caretaker committee on the basis that it runs contrary to the laid down rules and regulations. The former Osun State SSG insisted that it would be fair and just for the Osun West Senatorial Zone to produce the occupant of the governorship seat of the state. Adeoti described as false claims by Oyetola that he had been able to impact positively on the well-being of the citizenry in Osun State. ALSO, Oyetola said he would leave no stone unturned to secure his second term mandate at the poll.The governor, who was accompanied by his supporters, said his membership of the caretaker committee would not in any way confer on him any advantage over his rivals in the primary. He said: “I have been going round to talk with members of the party in all the local councils. “This is an election among members of the party. So, I will need their endorsement to be able to fly the flag of the party. “My performance in office as I speak today is enough for me to win the primary and the election in all areas of endeavour in infrastructure, health, education, security and economy. “The caretaker committee thing is just a fact. I wasn’t a member of the caretaker committee when I won the election in 2018. So, why should I be discouraged from serving the party? If my performance speaks for me, that is good and fine.”