All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda, 49, who has thrown his hat into the ring to compete for the presidency in this interview spoke on how to tackle leadership challenges facing the country and his determination to bring fresh ideas into the presidency. He spoke recently with the media in Abuja. ADAMU ABUH was there. People are wondering what could be pushing a young, businessman like you to aspire to Nigeria’s highest office at this time?
My entrance into the race as an aspirant for the office of the President, I believe, marks a new dawn for Nigeria and ushers in a new beginning. It has pleased God Almighty to give Nigeria a fresh chance at getting it right. I see myself as the divinely inspired vehicle to rescue Nigeria. Today, the bond of unity of the country is under intense strain. Strident agitations of all kinds from several quarters suggest the country’s Balkanisation along ethnic lines. Hitherto, silent fault lines have developed into frightening gulfs, sowing suspicion and deep distrust, shaking the foundations of our unity, and threatening the peace and security of our dear country. Insecurity and vices of frightening shapes and dimensions assail the land. Patriotic Nigerians believe that the nation is not moving in the right direction. This country has never been as divided as it is now. All these are manifestations of accumulated years hollow commitment to the principles of patriotism. How do you see the task of whoever becomes president in 2023?
The Nigerian State needs to be re-invented. It is a task that must be done. All that is required are innovative ideas, bold actions, and the courage to change the approach and style of governance in the country. That is what I would be bringing if given the mandate. I would be bringing fresh ideas, a deep passion for nation-building, honesty in service and using the platform of political governance to serve God and humanity. I will galvanise the party and the people into a mass movement of people of this beloved country, who are genuinely unhappy at the rate of Nigeria’s downward slope, and who believe that with selfless exertions, commitment to the ideals of nation-building and social justice. These will be people who believe that the country has wobbled long enough. These are a crop of Nigerians who believe that as a nation, we must work together to make progress together. These patriotic Nigerians, the majority of them women and youth, have, therefore, stepped forward to sacrificially exert their best to rescue this country and to install good and credible leadership.
But in 2015, your party APC made similar promises with its change mantra, all of which Nigerians say have failed at the point of implementation? We hope to be different. First, we have the courage of our convictions. We will walk the talk. The year 2023 will be a defining moment for Nigeria. We will serve with passion and clarity of vision. Our purpose must converge into focus. Through hard work and sacrifice, the people of Nigeria will unite through their common effort, in mutual responsibility, towards achieving concrete progress. We will not allow the partisanship and the narrow worldview that currently pervade the polity to strangle the urge to serve. We will also build enduring alliances of ideas, shoulder to shoulder, standing as a people and re-direct the arc of our collective destiny. In addition, I believe that government exists to serve the people. What is your take on agitations from secessionists groups calling for balkanisation of the country?
Nigeria’s diversity is its strength. I aim therefore, to be an apostle of unity in diversity, whereby the various units shall emphasise the strength of their being while the fabrics of national unity shall remain pre-eminent.
It is my resolve to do things differently and stand out in the crowd. We must restore to this nation, respect, dignity and confidence. We are set to give the people of this country the confidence that if they work hard in legitimate pursuit, the system will encourage and support them to attain the potential of their abilities. Where justice, equity, fairness and transparency exist; agitations, crime and other forms of vices will be less probable. Which aspect of your career life would you say has prepared you for political leadership?
My years studying and working have turned me into a well rounder and highly motivated professional. I have conceived several ideas and made some of them worthwhile projects that have affected the lives of people. These have thrived and have done well and undoubtedly in bringing out the best in my abilities. Being a strong believer in continuous personal and professional self-development has culminated in giving me dogged perseverance in every pursuit. As an accountant and an administrator, I specialise in public and corporate administration, management accounting and financial management, risk management, project management, development planning, change management and business development. These have sharpened my awareness as well as adherence to standards and quality in project and service delivery; in many instances, the small stuff often overlooked counts in a big way. This I apply to personal, professional and business relationships and it has produced established, stable and productive relationships with colleagues, employees, clients, and even other professionals. These experiences and milestones will all count in public office. Not only have I acquired skills in strategy and policymaking, but these past years have also seen me involved in mentoring and training thousands of people in these areas and several others. Do you want to talk about project management or capacity building, risk management, change management, Public Relations or leadership, cost and financial management, or business development or operations management? I have certifications in Intelligence, criminology, security studies, cybercrime investigations, environmental health and safety and forensic graphology. I am a member of the World Institute for Nuclear Security (WINS). These are all assets that will come to prove invaluable in managing the affairs of Nigeria. I know where we are coming from and where we need to go. I hereby offer myself as the new face of APC. 