Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, urged politicians in the state to rally around Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in his quest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in office, maintaining that the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader was the right and best man for the job. Sanwo-Olu, who said 2023 would be a difficult election year, stated that it was time to work to ensure that the successes recorded in Lagos would be replicated at the national level by helping Tinubu to actualise his ambition. Speaking to lawmakers, political appointees and party leaders, including members of the Governors Advisory Committee (GAC) at the 17th Executive-Legislative parley themed “Mobilising Citizens as a Social Capital Towards 2023 General Elections,” Sanwo-Olu said: “Let me stress the importance of working together as one, especially as we approach 2023, the all-important electioneering year. There is a whole lot that we can achieve together as a united bloc. Therefore, I enjoin you all to come together and let us rally around our father and leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as he gives the nation’s Presidency a shot. “He has unselfishly given himself to the good people of Lagos and Nigeria as a whole. This, indeed, as someone has rightly said, is the time to pay him back with our unwavering support. He is, no doubt, the right and best man for the job. He knows the issues plaguing our nation like the back of his hands and he has the magic wand to fix it. I, therefore, urge everyone to come together and rally behind this great man of history. Let us rally behind our great party. Let us speak with one voice. Together, we will give our nation a new lease of life.” Sanwo-olu stated that the theme for this year’s parley was apt in view of the giant strides his administration has made in the area of inclusive governance. “Without a doubt, the remarkable strides that our administration has attained in the last two and a half years would have been impossible, but for the efforts of everyone gathered here today. We have been able to achieve results because of the consistent support that we have received from everyone gathered here. We are in the Greater Lagos project together and your contributions toward the overall success of this administration will never be underestimated. “From the outset, this administration did not delude itself into thinking it had the monopoly of knowledge with regards to finding the right solutions to the myriad challenges confronting the state. This explains why we have consistently thrown our doors open to diverse opinions and views from various sources, and this forum is an integral part of our steady effort towards rubbing minds with all critical stakeholders with a view to achieving the Greater Lagos of our collective desire,” he added.