The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has commended the leadership of the Nigeria Army, particularly the 15 Field Engineers Regiment, Badagry, Lagos, for its efforts towards enhancing national cohesion through the promotion of the nation’s rich cultural heritage between its officers and the general public. Sanwo-Olu stated this in his address as the special guest of honour at the just-concluded 2021 West African Social Activities (WASA) of the regiment. Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Special Adviser on Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Solomon Bonu, said: “May I commend the tenacity and amiable leadership of the 15 Field Engineers Regiment and its officers and soldiers who have proven their mettle of leadership, by changing the narrative of the Nigerian Army from that of the most vilified to the most commended Army by making sure an activity like WASA that promotes the rich cultural heritage of the Nigerian people is still up and running in this barracks. “I also want congratulate and commend the Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Colonel Mohammed Bello, the officers and men of the 15 Field Engineers Regiment for organizing such a cultural event. Your selfless sacrifices, dedication and commitment towards restoring law and order, peace and security in various parts of our dear country is exemplary.” In his opening remarks, the Regimen’s Commanding Officer, Lt. Col. Bello expressed profound gratitude to the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Farouk Yahaya and the GOC 81 Division, Major General, Lawrence Fejokwu for always providing officers and soldiers of the regiment with the needed logistics support in peace and war times. He also assured the general public that the Nigeria Army would continue to defend the nation against criminal elements so that their lives and properties would remain safe and secure. According to him: “The West African Social Activities is an annual event in the Nigeria Army, which affords officers, soldiers alongside their families and friends the rare opportunity to interact freely in a conducive environment. “WASA is also a forum through which the authorities of the Nigeria Army foster national cohesion and promote the various rich cultural heritage of all the ethnic groups in our regiments. Thus, enhancing civil-military relationship in all army barracks.” 2021 WASA featured Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo, Fulani, and Egun ethnic communities at the 15 Field Engineers Regiment, Badagry through showcasing dance performances and masquerade displays as well as tug of war. Some of the notable personalities in attendance included the representatives of the Commander 45 Engineers Brigade, Brigadier General A A Salako; House of Reps member representing Badagry Federal Constituency, Babatunde Hunpe, who was represented by Mr. Taiye Towolawi and Council Manager, Badagry Local Council; Oba Samuel Wheto and Saheed Adamson of Idale and Ajido kingdoms; the publisher, De Voice Newspaper, Ovi-Manuel Kuponu; the principal, Lagos State Skill Acquisition Centre, Badagry, Mr. Olagbemi, among others.