The Minister for State Health, Dr Olorunimbe Mamora, has affirmed the commitment of the Federal Government to local production of vaccines to reduce dependence on international partners or importation. Mamora said this at the inauguration of the National Executive Committee and Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) in Abuja on Friday. He gave the assurance that the ministry was determined to continue to partner with the pharmaceutical society and relevant stakeholders to improve the health of Nigerians. “The ministry is seriously working for local vaccine production. Please partner with the ministry to ensure we realise the objective. “Currently, the ministry is partnering May and Baker Pharmaceutical in public/private partnership towards local vaccine manufacturing,” he said. The minister, who reiterated the imperatives of local production of vaccines, said it was aimed at making the country a hub of vaccine manufacturing. According to him, the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that the country cannot continue to depend on the importation of vaccines, adding, “We must collectively change the narrative.” Mamora urged the pharmaceutical society to collaborate with the ministry to enable Nigeria to achieve independence in vaccine production. He said that the ministry would ensure the creation of new pharmacists’ consultancy cadre for public and civil servants. “The cadre confirms a place of specialisation for pharmaceutical practice, especially in clinical settings. “The cadre will lead to a better patient management outcome and contribute to the improvement of the nation’s health indices,” he stated. The President, of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Prof. Cyril Osifoh, solicited a united and peaceful society of pharmacists to take the organisation to greater heights. He said: “We should reconcile, knowing that you may be right today and wrong tomorrow. “We must forget our carryovers, especially those anger and bitterness, and I encourage all pharmacists to embrace genuine dialogue. “Listen to each other and forgive one another in spite of our differences. In this new dispensation, we will always listen and act appropriately. Of all the skills of leadership, listening is the most valuable.” 