…. commission ask board to cancel registrar appointment The Federal Character Commission (FCC), on Thursday, hit hard on the Governing Council of Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra State, over the process that leads to Mr Umeozor Anthony Ogochukwu, emergence as registrar of the institution against the commission mandate. It would recall that the board committee of the council had earlier conducted an interview for the position of Registrar and forwarded its recommendations to the council. While speaking at the meeting in Abuja, the Chairman of FCC, Dr Muheeba Dankaka, threatens to deal with the head of any Ministry department and agency who fails to comply with the principal character. She said: “Federal Polytechnic Oko it’s not a state or local government institution, is an institution which others state should not be marginalized. It’s unfortunate that out of the twenty directorates, eighteen positions are being occupied by the indigenes of Anambra state and including the substantive registrar of the institution. “You are requested to ensure the mandate of the federal character commission in all processes of your recruitment/appointment, promotion or disengagement activities where applicable. “The commission was established to give effect to section 14 (3) and (4) as amended of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which provides in 14 (3), with the composition of the government of the federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the Federal Character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity and also command national loyalty,” she said. In her remarks, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr. Francisca Nwafulugo, called for cooperation and support from the commission to address the challenges of marginalisation. Also speaking, the Commissioner of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) in Oyo State, Prof. Adeniyi Olowofela, noted that the commission was established to ensure fairness and justice of appointment into positions across the country, also to observe federal character principles. He said: “we don’t want an issue whereby a staff of federal government institutions, will all come from the same state, we will need to spread it according to the institute regulation of the country. We have a committee system which are working with different agencies, so the committee usually invites the heads of the MDS to the interactive session, the session is to ensure that they observed and guide them on future recruitments”. However, the Commissioner of the Federal Character Commission (FCC) in Anambra State, Rev. Ibeabuchi Uche, said, “the committee that went for that exercise, were given recommend to follow in line with the principle of federal character commission, which the chairman of Federal Polytechnic Oko refuse and just go ahead to do what he wants to bring up a problem. Is not good that everything is one local government or two local governments, what about the other local government?”