Troops kill five terrorists, recover weapons in N’East The Parish Priest of Holy Ghost Parish, Eke-Olengbeche, Otukpo, Benue State, Rev. Fr. Peter Amodu, has been kidnapped. The Guardian learnt that the priest was abducted on Wednesday, July 6, 2022, at about 5:00 pm along Otukpo/Ugbokolo highway. He was reportedly going to Okwungaga-Ugbokolo to celebrate Mass when he was taken away. The Catholic Diocese of Otukpo, in a circular signed by the Chancellor, Rev. Fr. Joseph Itodo, confirmed the incident. “We write to notify you of the kidnap of Rev. Fr. Peter Amodu, a priest of the Holy Ghost Congregation working in the Catholic Diocese of Otukpo as Parish Priest of Holy Ghost Parish, Eke-Olengbeche,” the circular reads. The Local Ordinary, Most Rev. Michael Apochi, has called on all Christ’s faithful in the diocese and beyond to earnestly pray for his quick and safe release. “We commend our brother and all those in the kidnappers’ den to the powerful intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary for their speedy and safe release from the hands of their abductors,” he added. Verifying the circular, Otukpo Diocese Director of Communication, John Okpotu, said the priest was abducted on Wednesday. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Catherine Anene, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said she had yet to receive the report. MEANWHILE, troops of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) have reportedly decimated five Boko Haram terrorists in the North East. The Guardian gathered that on July 3, 2022, troops of 24 TF Brigade engaged the terrorists at Gamage in Borno State, and at the end of the encounter, five terrorists were neutralised. According to the spokesman of Defence Media Operation (DMO), Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, items recovered include two AK-47 rifles, three dane guns, two AK-47 magazines, 70 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, seven locally-fabricated 7.62mm ammunition, four mobile phones, three Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards and assorted bags food stuff. He added: “In compliance with its mandate of safety of life and property in the Nigerian maritime environment, the Nigerian Navy ship, OKPABANA, of Operation Delta Safe, on July 5, 2022, responded to a distress message about a propulsion of a boat on transit, located and rescued the 16 metres surfer passenger boat, MV NUE SWIFT, belonging to a Lagos-based oil servicing company. “The boat lost her propelling ability at Agbara Platform while transiting from Forcados to Bonny Mooring and drifted for 32 hours before being rescued by our troops. Accordingly, the crew members were handed over to Forward Operating Base (FOB) Bonny on July 6, 2022 where they are undergoing medical check.”