Director-General of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, (NAPTIP), Dr Fatima Waziri-Azi, has cautioned university students and other young people against falling victim to human traffickers through juicy scholarships and job offers among others. The DG gave the advice at the inter-university debate yesterday in Abuja, on raising awareness among young people on the hidden dangers associated with the use of technology and how it is being employed by human traffickers to lure unsuspecting victims. She said “be circumspect of the offers you get whether for jobs or for scholarships, do your research and ask questions” before accepting such offers. According to her, “North Cyprus is now a destination, Dubai is also now a destination and it never ends well for the victims. “Once someone tells you ‘don’t tell anyone,’ that in itself is a red flag, please take to the hills, (run), and don’t look back.” She advised. Participants in the enlightenment and awareness completion also highlighted some of the ways young people can be educated of the antics and ploys used by human traffickers so that they do not fall prey to their activities. Asiya Garba who is the President of the Law Students Association of Baze University, Abuja, noted the key role of parents and guardians in ensuring that their wards are well aware of the existence and activities of human traffickers as well as red flags to look out and stay away from while online. According to her, “Parents need to have more discussions with their children on human trafficking because the children are not aware of human trafficking or the dangers. They need to form a close relationship with their children in order to be able to inform them on the dangers and how not to fall victim to human traffickers.” Garba advised users of social media to be wary of scholarship offers by doing more research to know the authenticity of such offers. There is a need to keep up with the online awareness She said technology has is now an enabler of human trafficking as it has given them a wider pool of victims to lure in while avoiding the searchlight of the authorities. “The same way that technology is used by traffickers, NAPTIP can use it too to counter the activities of human traffickers. Their use of technology to create awareness by NAPTIP is key,” she notes. Another student from Veritas University, Abuja, pointed that a lot of young people are being trafficked for pornography. He said an alternative to using these young people is the use of animation movie and characters instead of real humans.