The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, says Nigeria of everyone’s dream is possible  if citizens are united and determined to make sacrifices and work together Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, the Lagos State Chairman of the party, disclosed this in a statement on Friday while felicitating the Muslim faithful on the occasion of the 2022 Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Ojelabi said: “The leadership of the APC in Lagos state felicitate our Muslim brothers and sisters in the state and across the country. “On behalf of my executive, l urge you all to uphold the lessons of love, loyalty, and sacrifice which are the foundations of Eid-el Kabir, during and after the festivity. “We must make efforts to co-exist and work together for Nigeria to prosper and move forward. “Our dreamed state and nation will only be achieved in an atmosphere of peace, unity, and mutual respect. We must work for peace and eschew violence that can further divide us as a people. “Of course, there is hope for the country in spite of whatever challenges currently facing us if we are united and determined to make the nation work irrespective of our different tongues and beliefs.” He implored Islamic faithful to use the opportunity the festival offered to renew their faith, hope, and commitment to the nation. Ojelabi also urged Muslims to reflect on the significance of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration and pray for the security and peace of the nation, adding that with peace in place, many of the socio-economic challenges facing Nigeria would naturally fizzle out. He said the festival was a reminder of the sacrifices Nigerians were to make for the development of society and the advancement of humanity. Ojelabi also urged Muslim Ummah to pray to God to help the nation overcome the insecurity and economic challenges. “We will overcome our challenges as a nation and the solution is closer than we expect. Let’s remain united and keep our faith alive,” he added. Ojelabi added that Muslims on pilgrimage to the Holy Land should also pray for peace in the country, as they performed the Arafat rites. He urged Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of commitment, dedication, and obedience to higher authority as demonstrated in Prophet Ibrahim’s willingness to sacrifice his son in reverence to the will of God. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Federal Government has declared Monday and Tuesday public holidays for the celebration of 2022 Eid-el-Kabir. 