Presented by GLG Communications in Partnership with The Guardian. The PR Power List is a first-of-its-kind celebration to honour outstanding PR professionals in Nigeria to mark World PR Day, celebrated annually on July 16 across the world. More than mere column inches or primetime interviews, these stars of the PR world have:  The list is divided into five main categories:       While we understand that no list is perfect, we have worked to ensure that we present an excellent list. The list was selected by our judging panel, who worked independently of each other to provide a holistic list.  Thanks to our selection committee, and congratulations to those who made the list.  Omawumi Ogbe, Managing Partner, GLG Communications.  ICONS Ayeni Adekunle has distinguished himself as a force in the PR industry. In 2006, he founded Black House Media. 14 years later, BHM became the first Nigerian PR agency to launch operations internationally in the UK, with branches in London and Edinburgh. In 2021, it became the first African Corporate Affiliate Member of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR). Forbes Africa describes him as one of Nigeria’s pioneers of digital marketing communications. In 2021, Provoke named him a key innovator in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA). BHM has also pioneered innovations like the annual PR report in 2016, the World PR Day, and the Global Day of Influence in 2020, and most recently, Pres|Ofis, a media and public relations tool by its platform Plaqad. 2.  Bola Attah (Group Director, Corporate Communications, UBA / Executive Director, RED TV) Bola Atta has been Executive Producer of REDTV since 2015. She is CEO of the UBA Foundation and Group Director for Marketing & Corporate Communications at United Bank Africa (UBA). In 2015, she served as executive director of Africa’s Next Top Model, a franchise whose first cycle reached an audience of over 10 million in Africa. In her 25 years of experience, she has received various accolades for her work, including being named one of the top 40 Nigerians under 40 in 2008 and one of the 100 most influential women in Nigeria. In 2017, she was ranked the top marketing professional in West Africa and was awarded the marketing edge prize as the Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality of the Decade in 2021. 3. Bukky George-Taylor (Founder/CEO, Robert Taylor Media) A Strategic Communications & Special Events Expert with experience working in Corporate Nigeria, America and Canada. In 2007, at 25, Bukky founded ‘The Bobby Taylor Company’ in Canada, a Public Relations Company that evolved into a significant African Strategic Communications agency now known as “Robert Taylor Media”. Bukky arguably pioneered and became one of the most prominent names in entertainment PR, establishing some of Africa’s biggest personal brands like D’Banj. She has represented top brands like Dubai Tourism, Pernod Ricard, Moet Hennessy, Estee Lauder, ONE Org., GT Fashion Week, and more. She is a member of the American and Canadian Public Relations Societies. 4. John Ehiguese (Founder and CEO, Media Craft Associates) John Ehiguese founded Mediacraft associates in 2003, a company that has grown to become one of Nigeria’s leading PR consultancy firms. He has worked with various high-profile organisations through his agency, including Mastercard, Western Union, Truecaller, ExxonMobil, Barclays Africa, and more. The alumnus of the IESE Business School Barcelona, and the University of Central Lancashire (UCLAN), also holds an MBA from the Lagos Business School of the Pan Atlantic University. He is a Public Relations Consultants Association (PRCA-UK) member and a Fellow of the African Public Relations Association (APRA). CHANGEMAKERS 5. Adebola Williams (Co-founder & Group CEO, RED | For Africa) A Nigeria media entrepreneur, journalist, political consultant and speaker, Adebola Williams is generally credited for helping three African presidents win their respective elections. He is co-founder and Group CEO of RED, which owns Africa’s most extensive portfolio of youth media brands, including Red Media Africa and YNaija. Recently appointed Patron of Malaria No More UK, he has been recognised as one of the 100 Most Influential People of African Descent and appointed a United Nations Global Champion for Generation Unlimited. Amaechi Okobi is currently the Group Head, Communications & External Affairs at Access Bank Plc. He is the 2020 winner of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) fellowship award.  He also won Brandcom’s ‘Most Outstanding Corporate Communications Professional (financial services) award in 2021 and the “Corporate Communications Professional of the Year Award” at the Corporate Communications Awards in 2017. Amaka is a public policy expert with proven expertise in gaining efficiencies, growing company profitability and mitigating extreme operating environments. Currently the Director of Public Affairs and Communication at The Coca-Cola Company, she has a track record of building relations with governments and public bodies; developing and executing regulatory strategies; and creating and deploying internal and external communications, among others. Founder and CEO of LSF PR – a full-service public relations agency with multiple SABRE Awards and named in the 2019 Holmes Report Global Creative Index list as the 11th Most Creative PR agency in the world. In 2018, Bidemi was listed in the Forbes 30 under 30 business category. In 2017, she won NIPR’s LaPRIGA (Lagos PR Industry Gala and Awards) Rising PR Practitioner award. In 2016, she won The Future Awards Africa Prize for media enterprise, and in 2015 was recognised as one of the leading female entrepreneurs under 25 by SME100. In 2020, Bolaji Abimbola was named PR Practitioner of the Year. Integrated Indigo Limited’s PR company, where he serves as Managing Director and CEO, won the 2021 “PR Agency of the Year” at the 2021 LaPRIGA Awards. With an impressive career of over two decades in marketing communications, Bolaji has often been described as a practitioner par excellence who has mastered the craft of brand reputation management. Bolaji Okusaga is a strategy and brand expert with a demonstrated history of top-notch projects in the media, marketing, public relations and banking industry. He has won awards with top organisations, including Access Bank, Marina International Bank Limited, and The Quadrant Company, where he and a team of professionals helped the brand win the Holmes Report Award as African PR Consultancy of the Year in 2012. Bukola shot into the limelight while hosting “The Classic Lounge”, a trendsetting midday show on Classic 97.3FM. Following an illustrious radio career, she was nominated as an Outstanding Radio Programme Presenter at the Nigerian Broadcasters Merit Awards. She founded BukiHQ Media, which has become one of Nigeria’s top entertainment PR firms, with many notable entertainment personalities and brands, including Mr Eazi, Burna Boy, Asa, 2Face, and M.I, in its clientele. Bola Balogun is one of the pioneers of lifestyle and beauty PR consultancy in Nigeria. She created and produced several popular lifestyle and fashion shows, some of which aired on Mnet. In 2012, she founded Glam Brand Agency to help position brands, personalities and their products for exponential growth with effective brand strategy and public relations services. The agency has executed projects for Yves Saint Laurent, Lancôme Paris, and Maybelline New York, among others. With over two decades of global experience in brand strategy, sponsorships, digital marketing, data analytics and other areas of communication, Bridget is a marketing and branding professional par excellence. Before joining Stanbic IBTC Holdings, where she’s currently the Head of Marketing and Communications, she was head of Sponsorship and Events at FirstBank Nigeria Plc. In addition, she had previously worked in aviation with British Airways and Aero Airlines. 2019 Brandcom PR Manager of the Year award winner Caroline Oghuma is the Executive Head, Corporate Affairs at Multichoice Nigeria, where she’s worked since 2014. Before joining Multichoice, she worked with MTN and Stanbic IBTC. In 2020, she emerged winner of the Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria’s Pay TV Most Effective Corporate Communications Professional award. With almost three decades of experience working in the media, banking, and Oil & Gas Industries, Charles Aigbe is a veteran marketing and communications professional skilled in branding management, marketing, PR and events management.  Currently the Deputy Vice President, Community Relations at Heirs Oil & Gas, he was President of the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) from 2017-2019. Cherry Eromosele is one of Nigeria’s most decorated communications professionals. In 2021, she was listed in the Global Top 100 B2B Marketing Leaders in Technology by HotTopics, a global business leadership community. She was also recognised by the Women in Marketing Communications Conference, WIMCA, as ‘Outstanding Female Marketing Professional for the Year’ in 2020, among several other awards. Efosa is a senior Marketing Communications professional with extensive experience of over 14 years in executing PR campaigns across different sectors, including entertainment and financial technology. He currently handles the PR and publicity affairs of Netflix in sub-Saharan Africa. Efosa’s work experience includes PR Manager at DStv Nigeria, Universal Music Group’s PR, Marketing and Communications Manager (Anglophone West Africa) and Head of Communications for West Africa at Uber. In 2017, Elizabeth Osho was listed among Nigeria’s 100 most inspiring women.  A detailed strategist, communications expert, and serial entrepreneur, She is the CEO and founder of So.Me Solutions, a full-service Communications agency servicing SMEs, Fortune 500 clients and Government agencies, including MasterCard Foundation, South African Tourism, Unilever, FilmOne, Moet And Chandon, Sterling Bank, SweetKiwi and more. Emeka Opara emerged winner of the Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality of the Decade category of the MARKETING EDGE Marketing and Advertising Awards of Excellence in 2020. He has over 25 years of consistent communications practise spanning journalism, advertising, public relations, events, sponsorships and corporate social responsibility. Folake Ani-Mumuney is an Executive Council Member, World Federation of Advertisers. She has worked in corporate communications in organisations across multiple industries, including British Airways, where she became the first Black woman to occupy a top management position. In 2017, Ani-Mumuney emerged as the first female President of the Advertisers Association of Nigeria. She clinched the Lifetime Achievement awards at the 2019 Marketing World Awards in Ghana. With over 14 years of journalism experience and several prestigious awards, Folashade Adebayo is the current communications officer at UNICEF Nigeria. The Chevening Scholarship Alumna and University of Aberdeen graduate works in the Maiduguri Field Office of UNICEF. She manages donor visibility, media partnerships, and strategic communications for the foundation’s humanitarian interventions across North-East Nigeria. A consumer marketing professional in innovative marketing and commercial strategies, Funmilayo collaborates with stakeholders as Head of Marketing Communications and Investor Relations at Wema Bank, Plc. Before moving to Wema Bank, she served as Marketing Services Coordinator; Head, Internal Communications, Merchandising and Warehousing at FirstBank of Nigeria, where she developed and implemented year-on-year internal communications strategies in alignment with the bank’s overall marketing strategy. Funso Aina is a public relations and corporate communications professional with multi-sectoral experience in telecommunications, cultural diplomacy, and journalism with over 24 years of experience. In 2021, he won the award for “Best in Crisis Management” at the sixth edition of the Lagos State PR Industry Gala and Award. At MTN Nigeria Plc, he is responsible for leading strategy and driving targeted engagement with the company’s critical stakeholders. Hadiza is the head of corporate communications at the Bank of Industry, a position she has held for seven years.  The Business School of Netherlands Graduate has demonstrated her experience by helping the Bank of Industry set a standard in corporate communications on the continent. With 26 years of practice, Opayemi has served as Chief Press Secretary in the Office of the Deputy Governor of Lagos State and SA on Public Affairs in the Governor’s Office. He is directly responsible for executive counsel and advisory to public sector clients, including Nigeria’s current Minister for Works & Housing, Babatunde Fashola, and the current Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He is the current President of the Public Relations Consultants Association of Nigeria and a Board Member of the International Advertising Association (IAA) in Nigeria. Jide Sipe leads the marketing and corporate communications department at Ecobank, Nigeria, where he promotes the bank’s digital platform capabilities. He has worked in top companies, including Heirs Insurance and GTBank, where he served as Head of Media Relations and later Head of Experiential Marketing Unit for over 14 years. Jide is a member of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria, the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, the Chartered Management Institute, and the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria. Motola Oyebanjo is an experienced professional with over 20 years of experience in the corporate communications departments of top organisations, including Upfield, Lafarge, British Council, United Kingdom Education, Union Bank, Nissan, and Kia, among others. Oyebanjo was recognised in 2021 on the “Nigerian Women Annual 100 Leading Women List” and the “Top 100 Career Women’s List.” The Kingston University of London Graduate has over 20 years of corporate reputation building and management experience. She has received numerous recognitions, including Business Day’s “50 Inspiring Nigerian Women” in 2022 and The Best Corporate Brand Manager Award at the 2017 Brands & Marketing Awards. In 2008 and 2017, she was recognised as one of the Leading Women in Marketing and Communications by Marketing World West Africa. She is the founder of The Lighthouse Network, a social development initiative empowering women in career and entrepreneurship. With a career spanning over 15 years in communications, branding, and marketing, O’tega Ogra is a member of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations. He has worked as Head of Brand Management and Corporate Communications at Wema Bank and GTBank. He is a member of the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) with several awards, including the Corporate Spokesperson of The Year Award from the Industry Awards for Nigeria. Oyinade Adegite has two decades of experience in the corporate communications and marketing industry. She has worked with Stanbic IBTC and GTBank in leadership positions. In 2021, she was named one of the Most Influential People of African Descent in recognition of her achievement as Curator & Head, Marketing, GTBank Fashion Weekend & Food and Drink Festival. 31 Patricia Obozuwa (Vice President, Public (Government) Affairs, Communications & Sustainability, Africa at the Coca-Cola Company) A member of the Forbes Council, Patricia Obozuwa has 20+ years of experience in leading communications and building teams at some of the world’s leading multinationals. The University of Oxford graduate is a board member of the Lagos State Industry Advisory Board for the Yaba ICT Hub/ Cluster Project. Popularly called the Amazon of Africa’s corporate world, she established the GE Lagos Garage in 2016, a hub for advanced manufacturing skills development that has produced over 2400 graduates in Nigeria. Rafiat Gawat has a proven record of working in multiple industries, from financial services to agribusiness and consumer goods. At TGI Group, she handles public affairs/government relations, internal communication, PR and media relations, and external communication development. She is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, a Certified Associate, Institute of Strategic Management Nigeria, and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations. Remi Okunola is Partner Chair, R & B Public Relations, a leading consumer PR agency in Nigeria. He is a New York Attorney, Nigerian legal practitioner, and English Barrister. His company has executed campaigns and communications projects for top brands, including Moet Henessy, Unilever, and Guinness Nigeria. In 2017, they won the “PR Campaign of 2017 for The Wedding Party” movie and “Best Use of PR in Entertainment” at the Corporate Communications Awards. Sam Olatunji is the CEO of Big Sam Media, a publicity company that increases brand awareness, leads and sales by executing targeted campaigns. The PR executive has handled major PR campaigns in Nigeria’s entertainment and corporate world, including the 2018 Netflix Movie, The Ghost and The Tout and Seven and a Half Dates. Segun Mcmedal is an experienced public relations and business development executive. He currently explores and optimises new business opportunities and strengthens existing business relationships at Mediacraft Associates. With over 14 years of experience in the communications sector, he has a demonstrated history of delivering public affairs and crisis communication, among others. Mcmedal previously served as chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations. Taiwo Ogunwumi is the Executive Director of Brooks and Blake, a perception management and consulting firm. A member of theInstitute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria, and the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria, Ogunwunmi has carried out projects in the marketing and strategic communications sector for multinationals, including MTN, Guinness, Unilever and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). Temitope Oguntokun is a frontline sustainability professional with impactful experience in Corporate/Public Affairs, Strategic Communications, Sustainability, and Management. She is the current Corporate and Legal Director at International Breweries Plc. In her 24 years of experience, she has helped organisations, including Lafarge Africa Plc and C&F Porter Novelli, build solid reputations and safeguard their legal and social licenses. With a demonstrated impact history in crisis management, strategy development, and digital communications, Tolulope Olorundero and her boutique PR consultancy have worked with an impressive clientele including Landmark Africa, The Sahara Centre, and Outsource Global. She is the Founder and Chairperson of Nigerian Women in Public Relations, an organisation set up to advocate for, and support female PR professionals of Nigerian descent worldwide. Popularly called the “Wonder-Woman of Global PR”, Vannessa Amadi-Ogbonna has earned awards and recognitions beyond her years in public relations and entertainment management. She has executed PR campaigns for A-list stars like Usher, Ciara, Naomi Campbell, and Estelle. In addition, her events, music licensing, and entertainment company, VA-PR Management, currently represents Music stars, including Tiwa Savage and Davido. COMMUNITY IMPACT Co-founder and Chief Communications Consultant at The Comms Avenue – a capacity-building and networking platform for communications professionals.  Adedoyin Jaiyesimi supports PR & communications professionals across 18 African countries through The Comms Avenue.  She has received different recognitions for her work, including winning the IE-ACW Communicating Africa Challenge and being named in the 2022 Leading Ladies Most Inspiring Woman in Nigeria list. Adedoyin has successfully executed projects for Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Nigerian Economic Summit Group and more. Eniola Harrison is the founder of Brussels-based communication consultancy HDD Consulting & Services and co-founder of Africa Communications Week, a network of Africa-focused PR/communication professionals from over 25 countries worldwide. Through the ACW’s vibrant community, Eniola and her co-founder support other African professionals and work to promote balanced narratives about Africa. She is also the Head of Programmes and Partnerships at IE University’s Africa Centre. John Ajayi is the current publisher and CEO of one of Nigeria’s leading marketing and advertising magazines, Marketing Edge.  He is also the founder of the National Marketing Stakeholders Summit and the Brand and Advertising Excellent Awards. With over 30 years of journalistic practice, Ajayi has demonstrated high professionalism in journalism, media relations, marketing, and strategy. Ken Egbas is the Founder and CEO of SERAS CSR Awards Africa, a platform recognising the impacts of organisations through their CSR and sustainability interventions. With a career spanning sixteen years in the marketing communications, PR and sustainability industry, Egbas constantly promotes CSR and sustainability across the continent. In 2019, he was a speaker at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) and was listed in Assent Global 2018 Top 100 Influential Leaders in CSR and Sustainability. Nkechi Ali-Balogun is the Principal Consultant/CEO of NECCI Consulting. She established the NECCI PR roundtable in 2009 to provide a platform where public relations executives converge to discuss the latest trends in public relations practice. With over 2o years of experience in public relations and training consultancy, Nkechi is one of Nigeria’s foremost female PR practitioners. In 2017, she was conferred a lifetime achievement award by the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations; and a recipient of the Red Media Living Legend Industry Award. RISING VOICES Dre, as he is popularly known, is a Public Relations expert, record label owner and media aide to famous Nigerian Afrobeat artiste, Davido. With almost two decades of experience in the industry, he has worked with an impressive roster of Nigerian artists, including Peruzzi, Mayorkun, Zlatan, Oladips, and Idowest. Dre believes in leveraging the power of music and public relations to break boundaries and connect more dots globally.  2019 Forbes Africa ’30 under ’30 honouree, Ijeoma Balogun is a communications expert with over 10 years of experience working with consumer, lifestyle, and tech brands in Africa’s largest economy. A Tedx speaker, Ijeoma’s company is a recipient of the SABRE Awards EMEA Certificate of Excellence and an Honourable Mention at the Global Content Marketing Awards. Redrick PR roster of clients consists of government agencies, international corporations and SMEs such as Stallion Motors, L’Oreal Group, Moët Hennessey, Heineken Lagos Fashion Week, and Burger King, to mention a few. With a career spanning over 10 years of experience in critical areas of integrated marketing communications, reputation management, stakeholder engagement, and more, Precious Nwachukwu has her hands on the pulse of some of the most prominent PR campaigns in corporate Nigeria. The APCON-certified professional has helped top African organisations, including Sterling Bank and MTN, with cutting-edge PR and Communications strategies. Since launching Media Panache in 2016, Timilehin Bello has won several accolades. In 2017, he won the Future Awards Africa in the “Media Enterprise” and was listed in the Top 25 Innovators in Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) by the Holmes Report. A 2021 Forbes 30 under 30 honouree, Timilehin has created a fast-growing agency with clientele including Bank of Industry, Jumia, and MTN Foundation. MEDIA ICONS With a professional practice that has not only extolled the three virtues of this year’s World PR Day theme, Arise TV has uniquely distinguished itself as a fearless member of the Fourth Estate of the realm and has distinguished itself as a news source that keeps Nigerians and Africans informed. It has done so by courageously covering the news and keeping Nigerians and Africans informed in times when other members of the media have shied away from doing so. Not only has The Guardian worked as a diligent member of the fourth estate of the realm and a steadfast watchdog of the Nigerian people since it was established in 1983, but it has also provided exceptional support for the advancement of the PR profession in Nigeria. The 2022 edition of the World PR Day is themed Trust, Truth and Transparency, which aligns with The Guardian’s motto – Conscience, Nurtured by Truth –  one that it has fully embodied in its over three decades of existence.