The Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), yesterday, described the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) as a disappointment to Ndigbo, urging the factional presidential candidates of the party, Chief Chekwas Okorie and Chief Peter Umeadi, to withdraw from the race and support Mr. Peter Obi. Describing the party as a “hypocritical entity,” MASSOB regretted the crisis that bedeviled the party since its formation in 2002, stressing that it has failed to meet yearnings and expectations of Ndigbo due to the activities of certain members of the party. MASSOB, in a statement signed by its National Director of Information, Edeson Samuel, and made available to The Guardian in Enugu, the group said it regretted the association of the late Biafran warlord, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, with the party. MASSOB said: “We condemn the internal crisis, loss of trust and confidence rocking the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), a political party that was generally believed and adjudged as Igbo regional party. “MASSOB, as a stakeholder in the affairs of Ndigbo, foresaw APGA’s degeneration when we raised the alarm some years back. “Our concern in this political ill-wind is that the late Ojukwu was involved with the party.” MASSOB lamented that the legacies, the name and person of Ojukwu, who was genuinely involved in APGA, have been destroyed by the current APGA leadership crisis that have refused to go away. It advised the leadership of the party and Anambra State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo, to stop pretending that “Ojukwu’s political dynasty is intact while the outer walls and internal pillars are cracking. “APGA, as the political bride of Ndigbo before was healthy and intact when it was handed over to Soludo as APGA governor and Chief Victor Oye, the National Chairman of the party. But today, APGA has deteriorated with an infectious disease of hatred, character assassination, blackmailing and selfishness of groups’ interests,” the statement said. 