• Presents 10 new cars to outstanding civil servants
• Charges officers to remain committed, outstanding Financial institutions in the country have been challenged to support the growth of the automobile industry. This is as the Lagos State Government promised it would continue to create the enabling environment for the expansion of the private sector in the state. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu stated this, yesterday, during the commissioning of the GAC Motor Showroom, Workshop and the GS 4 Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) in Lagos. According to him, the automobile industry requires the support of financial institutions to continue to expand their operations and create jobs for the public. He added that without such support, growth in the sector would be limited, while the unemployment rate would continue to climb. Besides, he promised that the state government would continue to create a convenient environment for private investors through its programmes and policies. Also, the governor said that the state government was partnering with GAC Motor for the establishment of an assembly plant in Ikeja and expressed optimism that it would be commissioned before the end of the year. In her remarks, Chairman of GAC Motor, Nigeria, Diana Chen, commended Sanwo-Olu for encouraging private investors to thrive in the state through its policies and programmes. She said that the GS4 SUV would create a difference in the SUV segment with fuel efficiency, state-of-the-art equipment and artistic simplicity. MEANWHILE, Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, presented brand new cars to 10 civil servants in the state employment for being outstanding officers. The cars and other gifts winners, who emerged through a raffle draw from a pool of 190 best officers awardees from 334 nominations received from Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), were rewarded in commemoration of 2022 Lagos State Public Service Week celebration. Also, two civil servants got a business class return tickets to Dubai each, while another two got $2,000 each. In his speech at the event, Sanwo-Olu pledged that the state government would continue to give priority to the needs of civil servants as well as improve capacity to meet the expectations of Lagosians. The governor restated his administration’s commitment to ensure incentives were provided to motivate outstanding performances in the civil service as the state is gear to unveil a 30-year developmental plan, while urging the awardees to continue to work hard. Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola, who thanked the governor for prioritising the welfare of workers in the state, urged the 190 recipients not to rest on their oars but continue to exhibit high sense of responsibility, diligence, commitment to duty and unalloyed loyalty.