•Hydrofuel, Lumos Laboratories partner to produce green hydrogen, ammonia, fertilizer, electricity from human, animal wastes
•Lumos technology would provide decentralised treatment of sewage on neighbourhood-by-neighbourhood basis Hydrofuel Canada Inc. (Hydrofuel), a company engaged in the last mile production and delivery of Green Ammonia and Hydrogen to its customers, has entered into a share purchase agreement with Lumos Laboratories Nigeria Limited (Lumos). Lumos has patented technology to produce green hydrogen, ammonia, fertilizer, electricity and other commodities from human and animal wastes. Under the terms of the share purchase agreement, Hydrofuel will provide funding to commercialise the technology. Lumos developed its technology to address the serious health concerns of communities without centralised sanitary sewage treatment. Untreated sewage poses a major risk to human health as it contains waterborne pathogens that can cause serious illness, such as cholera, typhoid and dysentery. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that nearly three billion people lack access to improved sanitary facilities, with the lowest coverage in sub-Saharan Africa (37 per cent), Southern Asia (38 per cent) and Eastern Asia (45 per cent). Lumos technology would provide decentralised treatment of sewage on a neighbourhood-by-neighbourhood basis. Implementing the technology is made possible by the sale of green energy and other by-products captured and generated by the process. In addition to poor sanitation, third world economies typically face energy poverty to heat, cook and provide basic services. Lumos’ technology addresses these concerns in part with the energy produced from its process. It is estimated that the value of the energy that can be captured using this process will enable Lumos to pay residents a small incentive fee for using its waste capture technology, further enabling local economic development. Lumos has secured a consulting contract with the Nigerian Prison Authority to study and pilot its technology. The green hydrogen and ammonia generated will be evaluated and assessed as a fuel for mobility, heat and electrical generation, and as fertilizer. Lumos’ Inventor and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Ejikeme Patrick Nwosu, told The Guardian on Tuesday: ““We are grateful to have made this acquisition deal with Hydrofuel Canada as it will provide a wonderful platform for us to realise our dream of making clean, affordable, renewable hydrogen-ammonia energy widely available while reducing the health impacts of untreated waste in our community. “One of the major reasons for making the move is to have access to resources that would enable improvement and development of our technology to more globally acceptable standard. Unfortunately, Nigerian system does not offer one much needed opportunities and resources to see out his dreams and make them come to fruition. I have many ideas that are yet to be developed and right conditions are important in realising them. “In coming weeks, we hope to be announcing another innovative product from our years of hard work. I got in touch with Greg Vezina, CEO of Hydrofuel Canada Inc., about 10 years ago when I read on how he drove a vehicle on ammonia in the 80s. Since then, the relationship has been cordial, which has culminated in this acquisition deal. In one of our virtual meetings, he made a comment that got me, he said: ‘I believe in your abilities and I know you can achieve whatever you set your mind on’. It was soothing and highly motivating. “Nigerian Government should do more in encouraging homegrown talents, if not we will loose them to where they are treated better. This has dire consequences. It is an open secret that we can no longer rely on crude oil to become a competitive economy, investment and development of other technological sectors are critical towards building a strong economy. You must sow before you reap. “We can see that solar panels and solar powered devices are common today and effective in delivering energy needs, but the equation principally behind that technology was developed in 1905 by Albert Einstein. It was a photoelectric effect equation, E= hv-hv⁰. This equation got Albert Einstein the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics. Afterwards, there was massive investment on research in this technology before we get to where we are today. So, with right funding and favourable conditions, we will be able to improve and deliver our solutions at even very affordable rate. “My dream has always been to become a great scientist and one keep working towards that on daily basis. It is not impossible to become the first Nigerian to win the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Money has never been a motivating factor in things that I do, those very close to me can attest to this. I am grateful to all the people that stood by me.” Located in Mississauga, Ontario, Hydrofuel Canada Inc. is focused on providing low cost, last – mile Green Ammonia and Hydrogen solutions to its customers. Hydrofuel’s proprietary technologies include modular re-fueling stations for Hydrogen and EV charging MAPS technology for low-volume, low cost production of Green Ammonia and Hydrogen separation Module for highly efficient separation of Hydrogen from Ammonia. Hydrofuel has over 40 years of experience in ammonia energy and fuel systems technologies. Hydrofuel and Ammonia Solutions are registered Trademarks and copyrighted.