In Nigeria’s gruelling football league, full of thousands of kilometres of travels on bad roads and games in between few days, against desperately ambitious players, Kelechi Chimezie could be referred to as the ‘super man’ of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Even in the highly rated leagues of Europe where advanced medical fitness technology and ease of travels are at the disposal of the clubs, there possibly may be just a handful of players that attain this feat accomplished by Chimezie. Chimezie, a defensive midfielder played all 38 matches for Gombe United and was never substituted nor started from the bench, clocking 3,420 minutes of football in the just ended season. Arriving Gombe United from Heartland of Owerri at the start of the season, the defensive midfielder gradually settled in with the rest of the squad and became a regular presence as the season wore on. Gombe United fans easily took to him as he began to thrill them to his deft touches, defence splitting passes and defensive tackles. In an earlier interview with www.npfl.ng Anthony Ademodi in Umuahia after Matchday 36 away fixture to Abia Warriors, the former Heartland midfielder spoke of how he adjusted to life at the Savannah Scorpions as Gombe is fondly called. “Ever since I joined Gombe United, it’s been a good season for me, as I settled in easily with the help of my teammates, the fans and the coaching crew. Playing in the northern part of the country has given me a different orientation about how the northerners appreciate football, because they turn up in numbers to support their team,” Chimezie had revealed. Chimezie joined the Owerri side from Gateway of Abeokuta and he said his ambition is to better his performance this ended season at any club he may find himself in the coming season. “I am hoping to get a better offer from any club home or abroad, and would also love to improve my performance because it is the dream of every footballer to aim higher. I am also hoping that I get some recognition by the national team handlers and believe I can hold down the position if given the opportunity,” he said. 