The Arewa Youth Advocacy has bestowed the Chief Executive Officer, Bloom Public Health, Prof. Chimezie Anyakora, with an award of excellence for Good Governance for his phenomenal contribution to the advancement of healthcare in Nigeria. The award was conferred on him during a courtesy visit by the leadership of the youth group on Tuesday, June 28, 2022 at Bloom Public Health Headquarters, Abuja. According to the leader of the four-man delegation and the National Secretary of the group, Ibrahim A. Adamu, the award was in recognition of Prof. Chimezie Anyakora’s immense contribution towards youth development, societal upliftment, nation building, and relentless service to humanity. Presenting the award, Ibrahim stated that the group deemed it fit to present the award to the CEO of Bloom Public Health for his exemplary lifestyle in the discharge of his God’s given ability towards humanity and his contribution to the advancement of healthcare in Nigeria. In his response, Prof. Chimezie Anyakora appreciated the group for the recognition, saying, “He was excited to see young, enterprising men and women who are working to move the nation forward in their various capacities.” He stated that Bloom Public Health is bridging the gap in public health in Nigeria and across Africa and creating a continent where access and quality of care are affordable to all sustainably. Speaking about Bloom Public Health’s impact, Prof. Anyakora explained that the company was born out of the need to create African-driven solutions to solve Africa’s public health issues, especially in the pharmaceutical sector. Leveraging strategic partnerships and collaborations, Bloom Public Health has over the last two years provided reliable, scalable, and sustainable services in the areas of supply chain management, pharmaceutical quality systems, laboratory strengthening and diagnostics, and policy for public health. Anyakora noted that several other projects are already underway and that the second half promises to be even more impactful. He assured the Arewa youth group that Bloom Public Health would continue to contribute its quota to nation-building through strengthening healthcare in Nigeria.