African leaders have been called upon to emulate Nigeria’s Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami. This call was made by the Secretary-General of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Haolin Zhao, during the recent public presentation of two books authored by the minister. Delivering his remarks virtually at the event in Lagos, Zhao, while congratulating Pantami for the laudable achievement, stated that “this is a unique achievement by a unique individual and I do not know many people, who are as dedicated and passionate about their endeavours as he is. I call on other African policymakers to emulate him by documenting their knowledge and experiences so we can all share and benefit from it.” He further remarked that “Africa should not just be a continent that always requires international aid but should also provide direction to the global community in the field of ICT,” adding that “I agree with the minister that Africa should not miss out on the Fourth Industrial Revolution as it is equipped with the resources to provide direction.” A statement by the spokesperson to the minister, Uwa Suleiman, the ITU boss also used the opportunity to express the ITU’s gratitude to and satisfaction with the leadership and initiatives the minister has brought to bear as the Chairman World Summit on Information Society (WSIS) Forum. Recall that Pantami is currently the sitting Chairman of the forum since his appointment in June 2022. IN a related development, the minister will be the special guest of Honour at this year’s Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) yearly conference, while also delivering the guest lecture at the esteemed College of Fellows Breakfast. This confirmation was made on Monday by the minister during a courtesy call on him by the Provost, College of Fellows, Ibrahim Tizheat in Abuja. The Provost, who was accompanied by the Chairman, Conferences Committee, Ayodeji Rex Abitogun, informed the minister that the visit was to formally invite him while extending the requests. In his response, Pantami while accepting the responsibility, noted that “It is an honour to be called upon to serve an institution of repute such as the NCS of which I am also a member” The event is billed for August 3rd and 4th in Abeokuta, Ogun State.