What President, politicians should learn from Osinbajo, by HURIWA PAN Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday, dismissed President Muhammadu Buhari’s directives to the army to wipe out terrorists and insurgents. The group lamented that having given such orders so often; they have lost significance. The President, while addressing graduating students of Senior Course 44 of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, on Thursday, had said: “Recent terrorist attacks in Nigeria bore the hallmark of national and trans-border insurgents trying to cause havoc in Nigeria as well as in neighbouring countries.” He then charged the soldiers to consider it part of their duty “to confront these terrorists and insurgents and wipe them off the face of the earth.” But in a statement signed by Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Jare Ajayi, the group said insurgency should not to have occurred at all had government lived up to its responsibility. It said: “Since it began, the kid-glove treatment meted out to the terrorists was what made them grow to the point of taking over territories in some states in the northern part of the country, notably Sokoto, Kaduna, Borno, Niger and Zamfara, among others.” While appreciating Buhari’s promise to give the military needed support, Afenifere noted that this has been repeated several times without corresponding action. It said: “For example, it was on record that men of the Armed Forces had, at different times, complained that they did not have the kind of firepower possessed by the terrorists they were supposed to confront and overcome. “This much was stated as one of the reasons why those who attacked the Kuje Correctional Centre on July 6, this year, succeeded in their dastardly mission. “Minister of Defence, General Bashir Magashi (rtd), while briefing newsmen after a Federal Executive Council meeting on June 3, 2020, said the Nigerian Army lacks requisite manpower and funding, and that the fact was presented at the meeting. The Minister’s submission was not controverted, yet no noticeable improvement has been seen since then.” The group said: “Section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution as amended, states unambiguously that ‘the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government’. “Sub-section (c) of the same Section 14(2)(c) goes on to make it mandatory for the government to ensure participation of the people in the governance of the country. “As is known, this aspect is observed more in breach than in observance. But that is not of immediate concern, here, now.
“That the President understands the duty of the government should not be in doubt, going by several statements he has made.” The group added that state and community policing must be allowed, while national security agencies should be equipped, motivated and mobilised adequately to confront criminals. MEANWHILE, a civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, (HURIWA), yesterday, applauded Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for full disclosure on his surgery at a Lagos-based hospital. It advised politicians, including Buhari, and others to learn a lesson and stop going overseas on medical tourism. HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, in a statement, also wished the Vice President quick recovery and urged him to continue to show faith in Nigeria. HURIWA said: “The action of Osinbajo is worthy of applause. The number-two citizen should be saluted over his full disclosure about his condition, as opposed to the secrecy that has surrounded Buhari’s frequent foreign medical tours on our public costs. “Without any controversy, Osinbajo’s model should be emulated by all leaders in Nigeria.”