• FEC okays projects running into billions of naira for petroleum, environment ministries President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, assigned portfolios to seven newly appointed ministers, charging them to serve the nation diligently. He also announced the reassignment of offices and said the redeployment was to reinvigorate some sectors where the government needed to achieve better result. Addressing a virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja, the Nigerian leader restated that his administration was strengthening things as it winds down on its second term in office. The new ministers and their portfolios are: Ikechukwu Ikoh (Minister of State for Science and Technology); Umana Umana (Minister of Niger Delta Affairs); Udi Odum  (Minister of State for Environment); Ademola Adegoroye (Minister of State for Transportion); Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub (Minister of State for Works and Housing; Goodluck Opiah (Minister of State for Education and Nkama Ekumankama (Minister of State for Health). The followings were re-assigned: Senator Adeleke Mamora as Minister of Science and Technology (formerly Minister of State, Health); Mu’azu Jaji Sambo, Minister of Transportation (originally Minister of State, Works and Housing); Sharon Ikeazor, Minister of State, Niger Delta (previously Minister of State, Environment) and Senator Gbemisola Saraki, Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development (ex-Minister of State, Transportation). The President urged the new cabinet members to consult widely on driving key programmes of the current administration. He also warned cabinet members against corrupt practices, reiterating that public officers must be above board. Buhari told the new ministers to await further communications from Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). Before commencement of the meeting and inauguration of the officials, ceremony, the gathering observed a minute of silence in honour of the Secretary-General of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mohammed Barkindo, who died on Tuesday, in Abuja. BESIDES, FEC approved N2.449 billion to facilitate execution of projects in the Ministries of Petroleum Resources and Environment. Minister of Environment, Muhammed Abdullahi and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, made the disclosure, while briefing reporters after the meeting, presided over by President. Abdullahi said members, during their closed-door meeting, awarded contract for consultancy services and design of Centre of Excellence for Environmental Restoration to Integrated Contaminated Soil Management Centre at the sum of N449,250,040.50 (VAT inclusive). The establishment of the centre, according to the minister, is in fulfilment of the President’s promise to Ogoni people geared at impacting them positively. Sylva, on the other hand, confirmed ward of conference hostel in Yenagoa, adjacent to the Nigerian Content Towers at N22 billion to Megastar Technical Construction Company with a completion period of 24 months. On the persistent queues in Abuja and other parts of the country, he said that the situation, particularly in the FCT, might subsist for a while until petrol is finally deregulated.