Abiru promises urgent intervention on Ikorodu-Sagamu, other roads Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, assured residents and road users that the ongoing rehabilitation of some major roads across the state would soon be completed. He said that work on Ibeju-Lekki/Epe Road and some road modifications around Marina would be completed in the next two months to end the hardship road users may be going through. Sanwo-Olu said this in Epe, while commissioning a 961-capacity mini stadium and the rebuilt of 339-store Oluwo fish market undertaken by the senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Tokunbo Abiru, with the support of the Presidency (Office of the SDGs). The event also witnessed presentation of financial grants to 1,250 market women, as well as distribution of farm equipment and financial support to farmers. The governor expressed delight at the performance of Abiru since getting elected as senator in December 2020, saying that he has been spreading dividends of democracy to citizens. “With these two projects and the provision of financial grants to market women and rural farmers, we would be enabling citizens to live better lives,” he said. The governor implored the beneficiaries to judiciously use the grants and farm inputs in a manner that would improve the living standards of their families. In his remarks, Abiru said the projects and financial intervention were buoyed by his determination and passion to improve the lot of residents of district and elevate the socio-economic conditions of the people, and more importantly, complement the efforts of the state government in improving lives. Abiru said the passion also informed one of the motions he had moved at the National Assembly with regards to the need for urgent rehabilitation of Ikorodu-Sagamu and Ikorodu-Itoikin-Epe roads to further bridge the infrastructure gap and enhance economic growth in the district. He expressed delight that the efforts are currently receiving necessary attention for rehabilitation from the Federal Government. The lawmaker described the commissioned projects and the financial support for market women and farmers as a partial fulfilment of the social contract he had with the people while seeking their mandate in 2020. On her part, Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Mrs. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, said the sponsorship of the projects were part of Federal Government’s efforts to develop the youth and lift women and other rural dwellers out of poverty.