 Actor Amber Heard arrives in the courtroom at the Fairfax County Circuit Court in Fairfax, Va., Thursday, April 28, 2022. Actor Johnny Depp sued his ex-wife actor Amber Heard for libel in Fairfax County Circuit Court after she wrote an op-ed piece in The Washington Post in 2018 referring to herself as a “public figure representing domestic abuse.” (Michael Reynolds/Pool Photo via AP) Amber Heard is far from accepting the jury’s verdict in the defamation case filed by her ex-husband Johnny Depp, and the “Aquaman” actress is officially making her appeal. TMZ confirms that, true to speculations, the actress is officially appealing the verdict in her defamation case with “Pirates of the Caribbean” star Johnny Depp. Amber’s legal representatives submitted the required paperwork on Thursday in Fairfax County, Virginia, to appeal the $10.3 million verdict that a jury had ordered her to pay her ex-husband last month. In addition, the jury determined that Johnny must pay Amber $2 million, making it official that she owes him $8.3 million in damages. However, Amber has promised to contest the decision ever since the verdict was announced. Recall that last week; Judge Penny Azcarate had rejected Amber Heard’s bid for a new trial in the defamation case with ex-husband Johnny Depp. Heard’s lawyer had argued that one of the jurors had served improperly in the widely aired defamation case between her and Depp. Her lawyers had asked the judge to throw out the juror’s decision and declare a mistrial arguing that one of the jurors should not have served as the summons was intended for his father, who had the same name and lived at the same address. However, Judge Penny Azcarate ruled that there was “no evidence of fraud or wrongdoing” by the juror and that the jury’s verdict should stand. She noted that both sides had questioned and accepted all jurors at the start of the trial.
Judge Azcarate wrote, “Due process was guaranteed and provided to all parties in this litigation.” However, Depp’s reps remain unfazed, telling TMZ, “The jury listened to the extensive evidence presented during the six-week trial and came to a clear and unanimous verdict that the defendant herself defamed Mr. Depp in multiple instances. We remain confident in our case and that this verdict will stand.”