Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has told primary school teachers in 644 communities in the 27 Local Councils of the state that he shares their problems, worries and challenges, urging them to know that he is interested in their affairs, including proffering lasting solutions. Uzodimma disclosed this at the weekend while addressing the teachers, including staff members of the Primary Education Management Board (PEMB) and Imo State Universal Basic Education Board (IMSUBEB) at the flag-off of ‘physical verification exercise’ held at the Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu Square, Owerri. In the event attended by his deputy, Prof. Placid Njoku; the Secretary to the State Government, Chief Cosmas Iwu; the Chief of Staff, Nnamdi Anyaehie, and other officials, Uzodimma, said: “I will be happy when my people are happy, and angry when they are angry. This is my mission. “Your problem is my problem and your happiness is my happiness. I have come to serve you and I will serve you well.” He noted that he is eager to address their problems on merit, urging them to discharge their duties according to the rules of engagement, disclosing that teachers, who had not been paid their salaries and allowances for the past two years, would receive their arrears after their successful verification exercise. He regretted that information available to him indicated that pupils and students are allegedly not receiving required quality education, directing them to submit themselves to verification, to get rid of ghost workers. By way of checking truancy and punish recalcitrant teachers, as well as get teachers to put in their best, the governor disclosed that the state government would put in place ‘clock in, clock out’ mechanism in schools across the state. IN another development, Uzodimma has approved the appointment of Chief Enyinnaya Onuegbu as his Chief Political Adviser and Head of Political Bureau. The Guardian learnt that Onuegbu, a lawyer and former Commissioner for Lands and Survey; and later, Commissioner for Power, replaces Dr. Batos Nwadike, who, recently, resigned. According to a statement issued at the weekend by the Chief Press Secretary/ Media Adviser to the governor, Oguike Nwachuku, Onuegbu was unveiled by the governor at a meeting where he addressed the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in the state. 