Businessman and philanthropist Femi Otedola on Tuesday said he prays that Bola Tinubu will get his heart desire to be Nigeria president in the 2023 election. Tinubu, the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) alongside former vice president Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party’s Peter Obi are among the leading candidates hoping to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari after next year’s poll. READ ALSO: Tinubu submits name of running mate to INEC Otedola in a tweet said it is always exciting to spend time with Tinubu, a former Lagos State governor from 1999 to 2007. “I am always excited visiting my Great Friend Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu,” Otedola tweeted on Tuesday. “May God grant him his heart’s desire in becoming the President of this great Nation.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has scheduled the Nigeria presidential election to hold Saturday, 25 February 2023. While PDP’s Atiku has named Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate, Tinubu said he is still in search of his vice presidential candidate but has named Kabir Ibrahim Masari, a Katsina politician, as a placeholder for his running mate to beat INEC deadline in June. Masari, a former National Welfare Secretary of the APC during the era of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole- led NWC, was nominated pending the conclusion of the consultation on the issue of running of mate by various APC groups. READ ALSO: Northwest governors, ministers harden position on Tinubu’s running mate Meanwhile, APC governors from the Northwest geopolitical zone are insisting maintained that Tinubu should choose his deputy from the zone. The party stakeholders from the zone have, however, pledged to ensure the victory of Tinubu in the 2023 presidential poll. Leaders from the zone also resolved to aggregate their interests and engage Tinubu. The decision of the Northwest APC leaders comes on the heels of ongoing consultations by Tinubu with critical stakeholders on the choice of his running mate. The parley by the group comprising the party’s governors, gubernatorial candidates and ministers who met in Kaduna State was aimed at prevailing on Tinubu to cede the Vice Presidency slot to the zone, assuring that the zone will replicate the electoral feat of the party in 2015 next year. 