Download logo On July 22, 2022, the Indonesian Consul General in Cape Town, accompanied by the Consul for Economics, met with South African retailer consultant Checkers, Mrs. Natasha Scholtz and Director of Red Wolf Global, Mr. Martin Scholtz, a shipping in South Africa to discuss the sale of Indonesian FMCG products in the South African market.  The meeting is a follow-up to the previous meeting with the Director of Red Wolf Global on July 19, 2022, at which the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town provided samples of Indonesian products for later evaluation by Checkers regarding the potential sales of these products in the South African market. The Consulate General in Cape Town conveyed the experiences and challenges faced in the effort to enter Indonesian products into the South African market, including regarding pricing and terms of payment. Another thing of concern is that Indonesian products available in the South African market are generally available at cash and carry located in Township, thus giving the impression that the quality of Indonesian products is less competitive when compared to products from other countries. It is hoped that the meeting can provide information so that Indonesian products can be accessed at retailers , thereby changing local consumer perceptions regarding the quality of Indonesian products. Consultant Checkers said that Indonesian products that want to be marketed need to be compartmentalized in terms of high end quality that can be offered to retailers and products that can be sold in large volumes for profit can be offered to franchises that sell products in bulk. Furthermore, Indonesian FMCG products have good quality but require prior introduction to the local community, which can be done by utilizing franchises that sell products in bulk for retailers small cash and carries to then resell to local consumers. In order to assist the marketing process, the Checkers conveyed the contacts of retailers group Checkers that the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town could approach to promote Indonesian FMCG products. As a follow-up, the Indonesian Consulate General in Cape Town will contact and approach the retailers relevant regarding the marketing potential of Indonesian FMCG products, and continue to seek the marketing potential of Indonesian products to support the implementation of Economic Diplomacy. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Consulate General of the Republic of Indonesia in Capetown, The Republic of South Africa.