Those who will make it past the damning deception and cunning craftiness of the anti-Christ must remain devoted to God and refuse to buckle under the strong influence of what would become prevalent deceit. This is why the Lord wants believers to “abide” in the truth that they have learnt. All children of God have the anointing and power of the Holy Spirit who inspires them to recognise the truth and enables them to live by it. Since the Holy Spirit ably teaches “all things” that are required to please God and make heaven, believers do not need erroneous and misleading literature of false prophets and teachers. We can only be identified as Christ’s disciples when we “continue in (His) word.” Equipped with the knowledge of the truth from the Bible, believers know enough that will take them to heaven. So, we must refrain from those who have the spirit of anti-Christ, and abide in the truth we have already learnt. “Let the word of Christ richly dwell in you in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord…” Salvation results in devotion to Christ and departure from deceivers and anti-Christ. The grace of God keeps those who are genuinely saved in the truth. Those who depart from the truth do not abide in Christ, grace and salvation. Denying Christ in doctrine, character and lifestyle before the world will result in being lost forever. Backsliders who do not promptly return to the Lord will eventually be overwhelmed by the spirit of the anti-Christ and be lost. But for the believer, the Holy Spirit of God who shields and preserves him/her from error indwells in him/her and acts as a built-in lie detector, as well as prepares us for our destiny when Christ comes again in these last days. “And now, little children, abide in him; that when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.” The scripture reveals that the secret of continual victory, fellowship with the Lord and confidence at Christ’s coming is abiding in Him. To partake in the rapture of saints, which is imminent, the believer is called to readiness “Now.” The uniform teaching of the scripture is that the coming of the Lord will be sudden and unannounced. This requires constant readiness on the part of all believers because, “when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, (it is our readiness that will make us) also appear with Him in glory.” Jesus Christ is coming again. As we await His coming, we must abide in Him and remain faithful. He will soon appear and only those who are made righteous through His shed blood and preserved by faith in Him will be received in glory. We are admonished to “hold fast” to our conviction and not allow deceivers to distract or shift our focus from Jesus Christ. “But that which ye have already hold fast till I come. And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.” • Further reading (King James Version): 1 John 2:18-29; Hebrews 1:1,2; Acts 2:16,17; 1 John 2:20,21,24,25,27; John 14:26; 16:13; 8:31; Colossians 3:16,17; 1 John 2:28,29; Romans 13:11-14; 1 Thessalonians 5:1-3,9; Colossians 3:1-4; Titus 2:13,14; 1 John 3:1-3; Revelation 2:25; 22:12-14.