Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, has been elected to the Governing Council of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAE), a step which signposts his outstanding role in the development of the engineering profession in the country. The Council of NAE is the highest decision-making body of the Academy that oversees the country’s highest professional bodies in science, technology and engineering. Notice of the election, conveyed by Honorary Secretary of the Academy, Christy Adelowo, indicated that Danbatta and other council members will serve for two years. Danbatta, a professor of telecommunications engineering with several decades of experience in academia and professional practice, was inducted as a Fellow of NAE on June 21, 2018, during its Annual Lecture and Investiture of the 10th President of the Academy. Responding to the election, the nation’s chief telecom regulator, expressed appreciation to the council for considering him worthy to serve. “The Council can count on my intellectual and moral support towards the achievement of the overall objectives of the Academy”, he said. In a statement, yesterday by Director, Public Affairs, NCC, Danbatta’s contributions to the engineering profession have been eloquently attested to, with a number of public lectures. “He received special recognition from the NAE in appreciation for his contributions through the remarkable implementation of various programmes of the Commission, which has seen very purposeful collaborations with the academia and other professional institutions in science and technology towards the advancement of the socio-economic development of Nigeria. “Danbatta has severally played similar roles, roles in the past, including his two terms as a Member of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN). He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE), a Fellow of the Renewable and Alternative Energy Society (FRAES) and a Fellow, of the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (NIEEE),” the statement said.