Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, will on Thursday, July 7, 2022, lead other prominent Nigerians to the public presentation of Aaron Ukodie’s book tiled, Nigeria Drivers Of Digital Prosperity: The Trajectories Of The Digital Evolution, Sector Analysis And Players’ Contributions.” The 472-page text is an experiential chronicle of Nigeria’s sojourn through the backwaters of Information Technology (IT) and telecoms to the revolution, which inspired the current global reference of its institutions, corporate entities/brands and individual skill sets. Other professionals to grace the event include Secretary to Akwa Ibom State Government and erstwhile President of Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem. The launch is to be preceded by eworld Forum 2022 themed: “4G, 5G Broadband Connectivity And The Economy.” The paper presentation session by Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, would be chaired by Chairman of MTN Nigeria, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe. Atiku, who is the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections, was head of the nation’s economy management team during the two-term regime of ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo from 1999 to 2007. It was the administration that birthed the Digital Mobile Licensing (DML) leading to the introduction of Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) technology in Nigeria. The veteran ICT journalist also gave incisive details of how and why it took Nigeria almost a decade to successfully issue globally benchmarked GSM licences. Also profiled in the book are contributions of celebrated and unsung Nigerians and corporate entities to the country’s IT, telecoms and computing ecospheres. Segmented into five sections, the literature avails Nigerians the tricks and trials pioneer players in the technology, telecoms and computing business environment endured to enthrone fintechs, creative hubs, telecoms, technology, robotics and other generational expertise and milestones that Nigeria is currently showcasing to the world. First of its kind to articulate the nation’s roadmap from pre-independence analogue era to modern day digital connectivity, the book besides being useful to industry enthusiasts, scholars, academics, researchers and students and avid readers, would also make an interesting reading and collection.