 MC Casino receives his award. PHOTO: G-Armani Concept Popular comedian and skit maker, Lawrence Osarenkhoe, popularly known as Official MC Casino, has been inducted into the prestigious Kings and Kingdom Africa Hall of fame as an Ambassador of cultural ethics, values and morals, ahead of his working visit to Europe. The Founder and Chief Executive officer, Alfa Global Impact Initiative, Comrade Ameh David Noah conferred the award on the comedian at the G Armani Concept House in Benin City, Edo State. The stand-up Comedian was recognised for his hilarious skits and creative content in the entertainment industry. Osarenkhoe, an Alumnus of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), renowned for his rib-cracking, Official Mc Casino is the 13th distinguished personality joining the likes of the National Secretary/Focal Person of National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), Prince Abdulkareem Onyekehi, the Provost, College of Agriculture, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria and other inductees into the Guild. Founder and Chief Executive officer, Alfa Global Impact Initiative, Comrade Ameh David Noah, said the comedian was recognised after a painstaking search for the award, as “one of the few Comedians who have put in a great effort in their campaign against immoral acts and social vices in society, particularly cultism, human trafficking through their crafts towards a better society.” An elated Osarenkhoe Lawrence described the award as a source of encouragement and urged the youths not to give up on their talent and skills. “There are times we produce comedy skits, preach good morals, speak against bad governance and discourage prostitution, which sometimes cost the sum of N200,000. 00, you won’t get much views and shares on social media. “But if you produce another video with a pretty girl, with very attractive boobs, showing her cleavage, if even sometimes I do not talk, I could get 10 million views or 55 billion shares. “The most painful part of it is that some people you look up to as role models in the society enjoy watching it. If you are not a man of will in this business, preaching good morals become a difficult task to sustain, because immorality and entertainment are first cousins”. 