Eroton Exploration & Production Company Limited has announced that it has successfully shut-in CAWC015 Well and contained CAWC047 wild well spill. Following the Oil Spill incident in Cawthorne Channel Well 15 (CAWC015L/S) that occurred on June 15 2022, the indigenous oil producer confirmed that the spill has been successfully contained and the well brought under control. The firm condemned activities of vandals and empathizes with oil spill affected communities, adding that CAWC-047 that was also vandalized within the same month and flowing to the environment since Sunday, 10th July has also been controlled. It noted that efforts are ongoing to complete a spill clean-up of the wellhead slot, a proper securement, and the subsequent installation of subsurface downhole plugs. It would be recalled that both spills were due to willful sabotage by unknown persons, according to the firm. In an update to journalists, the company’s spokesperson, Mercy Max-Ebibai stated that the Well Engineering Team and the Well Control vendor assiduously worked to establish control across all the flowing points on the vandalized wellhead. The firm affirmed that in the light of the sabotage, the team had to fabricate a platform on a work barge (as the well head platform had been initially totally cannibalized) before control valves could be installed and well shut-in was achieved. She added that following the preliminary Joint Investigative Visit (JIV), a JIV with all relevant stakeholders, including NOSDRA, the Ministry of Environment and the community was held on the 15th of July 2022 with the intent to estimate spill volume and Post Spill Impact Assessment. She confirmed that the clean-up exercise will be concluded at the earliest possible time. She also commended members of the affected community, stating “As excellent hosts, they provided all the necessary support in arresting the situation despite the hazards posed by the incident. We are happy that their seafaring and economic activities can return to normal in no time.”