Former minister of Police Affairs, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) remains in firm control of Delta State. Fielding the questions from The Guardian on the state of the party following controversial primaries, the elder party man said he finds the build-up to the 2023 governorship election in Delta intriguing. He said: “Recall that I led the Ijaw movement for governor in 2023. Our movement received massive support from the Ijaw of Delta State, within and outside the state. The umbrella organisation of the Ijaw in Nigeria and worldwide INC supported us. The Ijaws of Delta State felt marginalized, having not enjoyed the governorship position of the state from its creation. “We put up a good fight and one of our sons, distinguished Senator James Manager came third in the state primary election despite that the level playing field that was promised all contestants did not happen. Perhaps, it was political naivety for us to have expected otherwise. The primaries have come and gone. The supremacy of our great party, PDP, remains sacrosanct. “It has been generally acknowledged that come 2026 or 2031 the Ijaws, second numerically only to the Urhobo of the central zone, who have clinched the governorship ticket under PDP, should have it then. The PDP with its good spread throughout the state should not find it difficult to retain power as it has done since 1999.” On the choice of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate to former vice president Atiku Abubakar, the former minister said the choice is a master- stroke. “Both Alhaji Atiku and Senator Okowa are level-headed and presidential in demeanour. They will complement each other both in political and geographical spread. Alhaji Atiku has acceptable age on his side and of course, Okowa has youthful resourcefulness, both men are smart and committed to the Nigerian project. This ticket is unbeatable. Nigerians need this team now. The state of the party remains strong. But as can be expected, there are political and ethnic fault lines to be addressed by the party leadership. Given the vast experience of the leader of the party, I have no doubt that the fault lines will be addressed sooner than later.”