Director General of the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye has said that the continued success of the Daily Need Group in Nigeria’s business environment 50 years after it ventured into manufacturing was due to its strict adherence to quality ideals and protocols in all its operations. She made the observation while delivering the Keynote Speech, titled, ‘From Green to Gold: Operational Realities in the 21st Century,’ at the 50th Anniversary of Daily-Need Industries Limited. The NAFDAC DG expressed gratitude to the Founder/Chairman, Daily-Need Group, Otunba (Dr.) Matthew Oyin-Jolayemi, and all staff members for the courage to continue their passion to make medicines accessible and affordable to Nigerians. Adeyeye noted that attributes and characteristics such as diligence, being strategic, good time management, adopting business continuity plan and being progressive in continuous quality monitoring are all that have stood the group’s various industries and brands out in the market place. She said:  “Having read through the history of Daily-Need, I know these attributes have been used in various ways as shown in the successful completion of the company’s multi-billion Naira factory designed to NAFDAC, WHO & USFDA cGMP standards, which has now positioned the company well for good manufacturing practices. Daily-Need was one of the companies that was inspected under the NAFDAC/UNIDO cGMP Road Map using international standards, and some of the indicators for that inspection included three for the manufacturing site – premise, equipment, and utilities. “It is good to reminisce about the seed that was sown decades before and how tendering of the green has led to the growth and the golden fruit that it has yielded. In the pharmaceutical industry or the regulatory world, there is no one-off. The tendering of the fruit is a continuous endeavour. Therefore, the Sower must be progressive in continuous quality monitoring. Many of our pharmaceutical companies, including Daily-Need have kept up with this quality monitoring. The proactiveness of a company in the above stated attributes will reduce risk of failures of operation.” Adeyeye noted that Daily-Need started with less than 30 staff at inception but has now grown its workforce to more than 700 over the past 50 years.  She highlighted operational realities required to have achieved this to include training to increase the level of competence of the staff and strong organisational structure, which is a needed strength of any company. “The workforce must be well motivated and disciplined.  According to the published data, this is the best resource of Daily-Need. The Board and Management have consistently put the emotion and psyche of their staff and stakeholders as top priority. The outcomes are therefore not surprising,” she noted. Adeyeye added: “Knowing the strides that Daily-Need has made over the last 50 years, I am confident that the diligence, strategic leadership, and the response to challenges through improvement in the manufacturing premise with continuous quality monitoring, will generate into a future where innovation and creativity will be embraced for drug security, health security and subsequently universal health coverage…” I would like to congratulate Daily-Need for the Golden-Jubilee anniversary and wish Otunba and the entire governance structure of the company decades of successes for the current and future Green to Gold initiatives.”