The Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has stated its resolve to shut down activities at the AP Moller Terminal (APMT) Apapa, over poor salaries and unfair treatment of workers by the concessionaires. In a statement jointly signed by the President General, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju and Secretary General of the union, Felix Akingboye, the leadership of the union said it had engaged the management of the terminal at four different times with each one ending in stalemate. The union accused APMT of having no regard for its workers, and that the management of the terminal was offering the workers poor remuneration far below the industry standard. “APMT Nigeria has overwhelmingly exceeded its projected profits and return on investment and our members have been a critical factor to this achievement. We are therefore appalled that your employees (our members) who toil day and night to achieve this height are denied enjoyment of their hard work. “The leadership of Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria on June 22, 2022 met with the management of APMT Nigeria to discuss the review of the Condition of service (Collective Bargaining) for our members for this fiscal year 2022. This meeting was the fourth in a series of meetings and attempt to resolve the lingering issues raised at negotiation, but like the several others, ended in a stalemate. “This is as a result of the refusal of the management of APMT to concede to workers’ demand for appropriate and industry compliant increase in their salaries across board. “The union has long noted that APMT has no iota of regard for the welfare of its employees — Nigeria Workers. This is underscored from the ridiculously low salaries and allowance being offered as negotiation, which is far below the industry standard. On this note a seven-day ultimatum was issued, which has since expired,” the statement reads. The union also lamented the terminal management’s penchant to hire foreign personnel rather than hiring Nigerians who are eminently qualified to hold and man the responsibilities of these positions. “Also of note is the disparity in the salary and allowances between foreign personnel and Nigerian employees doing the same job in our nation. As a union we are aggrieved at the shabby treatment meted out to our members, and we can no longer tolerate this. “Consequently, the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria should not be held liable in the event of disruption of industrial peace in the APMT Terminal,” the statement concludes. 