Her tears on podium shows there is hope for us, says Obi
President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, led other prominent Nigerians to shower commendations on the world’s latest champion, Oluwatobilola Amosun, who in the early hours of the day broke the world 100 metres women hurdles record at the just-concluded World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, United States. Amusan set a new world record in the semifinals of the athletic event and in the final became the first Nigerian to win a World Championship gold medal. While congratulating Amusan, Buhari thanked the track superstar for “making the Nigerian national anthem resonate again from the international podium, leaving the nation with excitement and unforgettable memories of tears of joy and triumph; hope and victory; incredulity and belief.” He said the legendary career and achievements of the golden girl will continue to inspire the upcoming generations of Nigerian athletes to achieve spectacular success. The President also commended Ese Brume for representing Nigeria with honour and pride, winning silver medal in the women’s long jump event. ALSO commending Amusa, Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, said: “This is another superlative record coming from an Ogun State indigene. She has reconfirmed Ogun State’s standard of excellence now in sports and we are very proud of her.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, Abiodun said Amusan’s feat “is heart-warming and a thing of pride to not only the black race but the nation and Ogun State in particular.” He recalled how his administration, during the COVID-19 pandemic announced the adoption of the talented Ijebu-Ode-born athlete as proposed by the Minister of Youths and Sport, Sunday Dare, when he visited Ogun State. “We supported her. We are a state of many firsts. Here is another testimony to that fact. I am very proud of that feat in Oregon. She’s one of our major exports in sports and we are happy to be associated with her.” Cheering the star athlete, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki described the hurdler as “a worthy ambassador of the country,” adding: “Amusan, a two-time African Games champion, has continued to blaze the trail, putting the nation on the global map for good. “Her wizardry performance at the global competition, at the weekend, was a classic display of the dogged and indomitable Nigerian spirit. We are proud of her exploits and are even more confident that she will bring more glory to the country.”
Noting that the victory is an excellent inspiration to Nigerian youths to toe the path of hard work, Obaseki said his administration will sustain investment in the sports sector to create more opportunities for Edo youths. IN his remarks, Labour Party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi, said Amusan is an example of what the Nigerian youth can do given the right leadership. Obi in a tweet on his official twitter handle @PeterObi, noted that her tears at the podium signifies how Nigeria needs leaders to bring the aspirations and talents of Nigerian youths to fruition. He wrote; “I sincerely congratulate Tobi Amusan on winning the 100m hurdles gold medal and setting a world record. Her tears at the ceremony podium while the Nigerian anthem played, connects that our dear country needs leaders to match the talents and ambitions of her youths.” DELTA State Governor and Vice-Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, also congratulated Amusan and Ese Brume for winning gold and silver medals at the championships. Brume’s 7.02m silver winning jump was an improvement on the bronze medal she won at the last championship. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, Okowa said he was elated to receive the news of the sterling performances of the duo at the event. He said that such winning spirit was needed by Nigerians all over the world to turn things around for the country, adding that the government and people of Delta were proud of Amusan and Brume for their gallantry. “I was highly delighted when I received the news of Amusan winning gold medal in the 100m hurdles and Ese Brume’s silver medal in the women’s long jump. “By winning the 100m hurdles with a world record of 12.06s, Amusan made history, becoming the first Nigerian to ever win a gold medal at the World Athletics Championships. “Also worthy of commendation is Ese Brume’s leap of 7.02m, an improvement from the 6.91m at the last championship.” The governor urged every Nigerian to imbibe the winning mentality, winning spirit, adding: “It is only such conquering mentality and patriotic heroism that can engender the much-needed change that Nigerians are yearning for.” 