The Kaduna State Government on Thursday launched an E-learning portal known as ’’Nigeria Learning Passport’’ to make learning affordable and easy to access for both primary, secondary and the general public. During the portal launch in Kaduna, the State Commissioner for Education Hajiya Halima Lawal, said the gesture was in line with global best practices in technological advancement in efforts to solve challenges in the educational sector. The Nigeria Learning Passport (NLP) designed to improve learning outcomes for primary pupils and secondary school students across the state.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NLP is an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Education designed to close  learning poverty gap and enable continued access to quality education. It is an  online e-learning platform with mobile and offline capability that enables continuous access to quality education. Lawal said that  the state government was committed to improving education with 27.3 percent  in its education budget  from 2019-2022. She said the birth of the  NLP was a milestone achievement in the education delivery model focused on equitable  quality and flexible learning. “The platform will provide opportunity for continuous access to quality education for children, youth and teachers across Nigeria .
“I am particularly happy, that Kaduna state is among the states in Nigeria to launch the Nigeria Learning Passport as we performed very well in implementing e-learning  during COVID-19 lockdown”, she said. The commissioner noted that the state government would ensure all the children have access to learning resources as provided by the Nigeria Learning Passport platform. Lawal urged parents and guardians to support every Kaduna State child to access the platform in order to bridge the digital device to further improve the quality of education. According to her, the state government will continue to initiate and support any project that benefit its citizens as the NLP platform proofs that digital learning had come to stay. Also speaking, Mr Francis Elisha,the education officer,UNICEF stated that the COVID-19 pandemic created an opportunity that changed the learning process and made it digital. He said that NLP was a new innovation that provide students an opportunity to access learning at home where students in rural communities would benefit. Some of the students who were in attendance lauded the initiative saying it would help improve their learning. Miss Keren  Happuch, said the platform would help her study well and aid her improve in her week subjects. Another student, Miss Zainab Ibrahim, said she was excited to be part of the students to benefit from the platform adding that she would have read ahead of her teacher through the platform. NAN also reports that the Nigeria learning platform is supported by the United Nations Children’s Fund(UNICEF), Microsoft and Global Partnership for Education. 