• Says no death recorded
• Cancels Cultural Creative Art, and Arabic Language BECE exams over technical errors
• Govt’ll continue to distribute dividends of democracy evenly, says dep gov Oyo State Government has called for calm among parties involved in the crisis involving traders at Mobil, Ring Road area in Ibadan South West Local Council on Sunday. Executive Assistant to the Governor on Security Matters, CP Odukoya Sunday (rtd), while addressing journalists shortly after the meeting with the parties involved, said that the crisis had been settled, noting that the parties involved have agreed to sheathe their swords and continue to live in harmony. The retired police commissioner commended the security operatives for being proactive to bring the situation under control since Sunday that the crisis occurred. He, however, said that there was no death recorded as a result of the crisis, but stated that there is somebody on admission receiving treatment as a result of an injury sustained. In his response, the Babaloja of Mobil, Mr. Yayi Omoike, who commended the timely intervention of the state governor to ensure peace among the people, said the intervention had brought back unity to the place. Also, the Seriki Hausa Community in Mobil, Alhaji Suleiman Garuba, maintained that all parties involved had agreed to settle their quarrel and allow peace to reign in line with the intervention of the state government. IN another development, the Oyo State Ministry of Education, Science and Technology has cancelled Cultural Creative Art and Arabic Language Subjects in the ongoing Basic Education Certification Examination (BECE) over technical errors. Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Abdulraheem Abdulrahman, who disclosed this, yesterday, while monitoring the BECE in five local councils within the Ibadan metropolis, said that both subjects would be re-written.
MEANWHILE, the Deputy Governor of the state, Chief Bayo Lawal, yesterday, pledged that the current administration would continue to share the dividends of democracy equitably among various zones of the state. Lawal gave the promise when he received Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwarts and political appointees on a courtesy visit from Ogbomoso zone, led by an elder statesman, Chief Saka Balogun, He assured them of his unflinching support, describing Governor Seyi Makinde as a fair leader who is so committed to the progress of the state. Earlier in his remarks, Balogun, who pledged the support of the people of Ogbomoso to the deputy governor, charged him to put the interest of Ogbomoso indigenes and other zones at heart.