Religious, traditional leaders, others preach peace at ECWA
Gunmen, yesterday, stormed Lema community in Mando, Igabi Local Council of Kaduna State, and reportedly kidnapped a pregnant woman, her sick mother and six other persons. Lema is close to the Nigeria Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna.  The state government and the police are yet to issue any statement regarding the incident. But a resident (name withheld), who confirmed the development, called on the government to come to their rescue over incessant attacks by bandits on his community. “When the bandits stormed the area about 01:00a.m., they began to shoot sporadically, creating fear, which made it impossible for people to come out,” he said. ISLAMIC clerics, yesterday, joined their Christian counterparts to worship at the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) Gospel Church, Kaduna, as part of efforts to promote peaceful and religious coexistence. It was at the instance of the church in its efforts at strengthening religious harmony and peaceful coexistence, regardless of religious differences, in the state. Some of the Muslims, who attended the church service, were Nigeriens living in the church’s vicinity along Lemu Road. Also, traditional leaders, including the District Head of Barnawa, Alhaji Kabiru Zubairu; the Wakilin Shehu Borno, HRH Bata Auta; and the Sarkin Dutse, Alhaji Shuaibu Abdullahi, were in attendance. The Islamic clerics, who shared their thoughts at the service, include Sheikh Dahiru Abdullahi, Dr. Hamisu Ya’u and Sheikh Shehu Ayotola. Seeing no need for Christians and Muslims to fight over religion, they pointed out: “You cannot be a good Muslim if you don’t like your Christian neighbour and vice versa.” Sheikh Abdullahi said: “Muslims and Christians are twins. Christianity and Islam have not changed, but the adherents have changed and people have succeeded in dividing the two religions for their selfish gains. We must return to olden days when Christians and Muslims saw one another as brothers and sisters.” In his sermon, Zak Bungwon, who spoke on the coming of Jesus Christ, blamed the lack of fellowship as the cause of most religious crises, and called on Christians and Muslims to focus on what binds them together than what separates them. On the essence of the invitation extended to Muslims in a programme tagged ‘Friends of the Church’, Senior Pastor of the Church, Rev. Joshua Anyam, said the church was willing, more than ever, to relate with their neighbours, regardless of their religion, to promote peaceful coexistence. His words: “We do this yearly, basically to promote religious and peaceful togetherness among ourselves, and we are thankful that whenever we call, they respond in their numbers.” The Christian Solidarity Worldwide (CSW), represented by Reuben Buhari, emphasised that “it is better we live together and survive or live apart and suffer.”