 Elozonam. Photo: Kehinde Yousuff On the first-ever BBNaija eviction vodcast, an ex-BBNaija housemate and creative personality named Elozonam Ogbulu will have private chats with eliminated BBNaija Level Up housemates. The ongoing BBNaija reality TV show’s PR consultant, Info Digital Africa (ID Africa), said in a statement that the eviction vodcast was a close-up talk with the expelled housemates in which they shared their experiences in Big Brother’s House. The eviction vodcast, according to the statement, would go deeply into what it was like for them to “bare it all” on the show.
“The first episode will air in August, and subsequent episodes will be available on Showmax and DStv Catch Up. Due to his remarkable content, which includes skits, commercials, and microfilms, the multi-talented creative personality—who was a housemate in the BBNaija “Pepper Dem” season—has established himself as one of the most creative housemates in the program’s history. It stated that “in 2018, he hosted his show “The Cliffhanger,” where he spoke with young people, including several former BBNaija housemates. In his response, Elozonam said, “I’m excited to be hosting this vodcast and getting the chance to have honest conversations with the evicted housemates. “As an ex-BBNaija housemate myself, I have an idea of what the experience is like and that knowledge will surely come into play in my conversations with the Level Up housemates.” The statement claims that this year’s BBNaija experience on Showmax for fans is on a whole new level with tonnes of BBNaija content. “The contents include the exclusive talk show BBNaija S7: the Buzz, hosted by media personality, Toke Makinwa, the eviction vodcast, and Secret Diaries, which are short clips from the Diary Room and daily and weekly highlights episodes to download to your phone to watch later.” Fans of BBNaija in sub-Saharan Africa, the United Kingdom, and the Republic of Ireland have access to all the action in the Big Brother houses on Showmax for the second consecutive year. Visit www.showmax.com for more information on the eviction vodcast, BBNaija S7: The Buzz, and other Showmax programmes. Watch every BBNaija Level Up event live on Showmax for as little as 1,200 Naira per month on mobile, according to the statement. 