• Justify spending on security, coalition charges FG
•Terrorists killed six in Katsina attacks, says vigilante boss Many people are feared dead and others injured after jets belonging to the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) reportedly bombed Kunkuna village, Safana Local Council of Katsina State, in error. The incident was said to have taken place about 11:00pm on Tuesday, after terrorists attacked the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari’s advance team along Dutsinma-Yantumaki road, in Dutsinma Local Council. Dutsinma shares borders with Safana, and terrorists, who operate in Dutsinma are often known to escape to Safana, which hosts the dreaded Zakka forest. The Guardian learnt that the jets were bombing terrorists that purportedly attacked Buhari’s convoy when the error occurred. According to sources, many of the villagers lost their lives when the bombs exploded, while several others sustained injures. Many homes were said to have been destroyed. MEANWHILE, Coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSO) in Katsina State has called on the Federal Government to justify the money spent on security by ensuring safety of life and property in the country. Reacting to Tuesday’s killing of Dutsinma Area Commander, ACP Aminu Umar, by terrorists, Chairman of the coalition in Katsina, Abdulrahman Abdullahi, in a statement, yesterday, insisted that the incident spoke volumes of inadequacies in Nigeria’s security system. His words: “It is disturbing that government’s inability to provide our security men with tools to chase bandits to their enclaves is continually resulting in loss of gallant officers like Umar and other innocent Nigerians.” According to him, money is spent daily on security, but the situation is worsening everyday. “It is high time the President and the National Assembly began to query why there is no commensurate result to security investment. These senseless killings must stop,” it added. Umar has been laid to rest at Dayi community, in Malumfashi council area.
The Police Commissioner, Idris Dauda led top officers of the command to Dayi for the burial, which took place at 11:00am, according to Islamic rites. Katsina State Vigilante Commander, Salisu Rabo, has said that six persons lost their lives and others sustained injuries when terrorists carried out three separate daring attacks on Tuesday within Dutsinma Local Council of Katsina. Rabo, while speaking with newsmen, yesterday, said the first attack, which occurred in Zakka forest, Safana Local Council, led to the death of three police officers, including Umar, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). He said the second was on President Muhammadu Buhari’s advance team on the Dutsinma-Yantumaki road, in which two persons were injured. The third attack took place at Kwanar Dutse village, Dutsinma, where the terrorists ransacked the entire community, killed three vigilante members and injured several people, he added.