 Kizz Daniel and Tekno on Buga video Hits 300M Total Streams
With a global tour underway and arguably one of the biggest songs rocking major cities, Kizz Daniel is having an impressive year. He records another artistic landmark as the first artiste to hit 300 million total streams on Boomplay, making him the current most streamed artist on the platform. Leading the way in those streams includes some of Kizz Daniel’s most acclaimed projects, such as Barnabas EP with 133.5 million streams, King of Love with 39M streams, No Bad Songs with 22.1M streams, and his most streamed single 1 at 82 million streams. Having recorded mainstream success with Buga featuring Tekno, which has also been largely described as a masterstroke, the single continues to enjoy massive reception. Buga was reported to have accumulated 1 million streams within 24 hours of release on Boomplay and has since retained the top spot in countries such as Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Zimbabwe, Togo, Zambia, DRC, Benin and Sierra Leone. Furthering recent milestone announcements from Boomplay, Kizz Daniel’s 300 million streaming feat also signals astronomical growth levels in the music industry regarding music consumption and streaming culture. Earlier in April 2022, Boomplay announced that Kizz Daniel became the first artist to hit 100,000,000 project-based streams in less than six months with his fourth studio project Barnabas EP. With this feat, Kizz Daniel becomes the leader of Boomplay’s Golden Club, which also houses Burna Boy, Fireboy, Joeboy, Omah Lay, Rayvanny, Diamond Platnumz, Davido, Wizkid, Olamide, Naira Marley, Ruger, Black Sherif and Simi. As Afrobeats continues to relish democratised access and resounding applause on the global stage, Boomplay’s prominence in music streaming and amplifying homegrown talents will see to an iteration of its global dominance. Just recently, Kizz Daniel released the video for his 2022 hit song Buga. Tekno who sang a verse in the song, was also featured in the video directed by T.G Omori, popularly called Boy Director. Since its release, Buga has broken several records across the globe. There have been several dance challenges on Tiktok to promote the less than four-minute song, which has increased its popularity. The colourful video of the song was shot in a carnival-like setting, displaying various countries’ flags. The music video also features famous skit maker, Chukwuemeka Ejekwu, better known as Oga Sabinus. The skit maker won the best online content at the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards. The 28-year-old Afropop singer released the visuals of Buga after the song has amassed over 17 million views on YouTube. Since its release, it has topped the charts of various online music streaming platforms. The song had achieved the status of the most Shazamed song in the world and also held the number one position in over ten countries on the Apple Music Charts. Shazam is an online application that can identify music, movies, advertising, and television shows, based on a short sample played and using the microphone on the device. However, according to mid-year data compiled by TurnTable Charts, a music magazine, Buga is already the third most-streamed song of 2022 and the No. 38 most-heard song on the radio. The theme is also named the No. 10 overall song of 2022 so far. As a result, Buga is now the most played song of the year, not just in Nigeria, but also in other parts of Africa and Europe. According to Turn Table data, the song has spent six weeks atop the chart to break the tie with Black Sherif’s Kwaku The Traveller and Skiibii & Davido’s Baddest Boy (Remix), which were released much earlier. Kizz Daniel is regarded as one of the few Nigerian singers without a bad song, as every song he releases is a hit. These include Laye (2016) Woju (2016), Jumbo (2016), Mama (2016), Yeba (2017), Jaho (2020), Park n Go (2020), and Ada (2020) and Pour me water (2021). Born Oluwatobiloba Daniel, the Ogun State-born singer started his music career in 2013, when he signed a record deal with G-Worldwide Entertainment; he left the label following a well-publicised contract dispute and court case. The father-of-two later founded his record label, the Fly Boy Inc record label, in November 2017. 