• Plans to meet stakeholders over election tomorrow
• APC will win with a wide margin, says Oyetola The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the deployment of the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in Charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, for the Osun State election scheduled to hold on Saturday. Kokumo, who is the supervisory DIG for the South-West geo-political zone, is to be assisted by Assistant Inspectors-General of Polic (AIGs), four Commissioners of Police (CPs), and 15 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) and 30 Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs). A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, stated that adequate police personnel of the rank of Chief Superintendents of Police and below had equally been deployed for the election. The IGP, who has been billed to meet with stakeholders in Osogbo tomorrow, July 12, 2022, said the deployment was aimed at creating a conducive and enabling environment that would guarantee peaceful and proper conduct of the polls. He, therefore, urged the people of Osun State to be law-abiding and comply with the restriction of movement order, which will be announced as and when due. The IGP also urged the people to come out en-masse and exercise their franchise, adding that adequate security has been put in place to protect them before, during and after the election. MEANWHILE, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday, expressed confidence that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would record a landslide victory in the governorship election. He said the victory would enable him to build on achievements he had so far recorded since assuming leadership of the state. The governor stated this during a meeting with the Osun State chapter of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) in Osogbo. Oyetola, represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, appealed to the electorate not to be deceived by desperate politicians. The governor, who noted that he had been serving the state diligently since the beginning of his administration, said those who lacked administrative capacity must not be allowed to truncate the development the state is currently witnessing. Oyetola also appealed to the electorate to resist the temptation of selling their votes, adding that they should not allow those who have declared to win the election with dollars and euros, to disrupt steady growth Osun is recording. He gave the assurance that he would never renege on his campaign promises, adding that the general welfare of the masses will continue to be his utmost priority. The governor also warned politicians against involving in violence, adding that election should not be seen as a do-or-die affair. He said that anyone caught perpetrating violence before, during and after the election would be dealt with in line with the law. Oyetola, however, said his administration would continue to support farmers with necessary farm inputs and implements. IN his remarks, AFAN Chairman, Mr. Suleiman Araokanmi, commended the governor for his various interventions in the agriculture sector in the state. Araokanmi, however, appealed to the government to give more farm inputs to farmers to enhance food production and pledged the support of the association for Oyetola’s re-election.