Download logo Through the excellent ties of friendship that exist between Seychelles and the UAE, the two countries expect to further consolidate their cooperation ties through the implementation of various projects of mutual interest.  The Minister of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation in the United Arab Emirates, His Excellency Sheikh Shakhboot Nahyan Al Nahyan, currently on an official visit in Seychelles representing His Highness Sheikh Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the United Arab Emirates and Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, this morning visited two key projects financed by the UAE. Accompanied by the Minister for Lands and Housing, Mr Billy Rangasamy, he visited the Orchid Housing Estate in the district of Grand Anse, Mahé. The visit was an opportunity for the two ministers to view first-hand what has been completed so far, as well as discuss new possibilities to expand the project. With the presence of the key agencies and technicians, the visit also provided an opportunity to raise any technical challenges that need to be addressed for the way forward. The UAE Minister then visited the wind turbines on Ile du Port. He was welcomed there by the Chairperson of the PUC Board, Mr. Lenny Alvis, CEO Joel Valmont, Deputy CEO Bradburn and Mr. Sunassee. He was given technical explanations of how the project is helping the country in the production of electricity. The two projects have largely been made possible through grants provided by the Abu Dhabi government and administered by the Abu Dhabi Fund for Development. Following the visit, on behalf of the UAE government, His Excellency Sheikh Shakhboot Nahyan Al Nahyan, reaffirmed his country's commitment and further active support in the socio-economic development of Seychelles. The Minister will be the guest of honour at the military parade to be held on Sunday to mark the 46th anniversary of our independence, which is also celebrated as the country’s National Day. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of State House – Office of the President of the Republic of Seychelles.