… Shops For N40million To Lift Many Nigerians Out Of Poverty The Thirteenth President of Rotary Club of Abuja Metro (RCAM), Ifeanyi Nnodu has raised alarm over the increasing number of needy people in Nigeria. Nnodu who raised this alarm Saturday in Abuja during his Investiture as the thirteenth president of the club also lamented the worsening trend of open defication in Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. According to him, the club will rally support from its members and well-meaning Nigerians interested in giving back to society to raise the sum of N40million towards taking as many people as possible out of poverty. His words: “The number of needy people in the world continues to grow especially in Africa, and all over the world. As Rotarians, we will contribute towards taking as many people as possible out of poverty. “There are people who do not have access to toilets, we will make sure we change the narrative by providing toilets for people to have access to decent toilets in order to end open defecation in the FCT. “We must leave here ready to make lives better in any way that we can for the communities around us through donating generously to these projects listed. “In conclusion, let me remind us of the famous quote by Winston Churchill who said “We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give”. Our society has unfortunately become survival of the fittest. “We will however continue to remind ourselves that there are poor people living among us and that there is joy in giving back to society and that it is indeed more blessed to give than to receive.” Nnodu disclosed that his administration will empower men and women in communities and teach them to be self-reliant through the provision of Barbing Saloon equipment, sewing machines, Grinding Machines as well as Pedicure and Manicure equipment. He noted that the main goal of the administration is to sponsor at least 75 young men and
women to Rotary Youth Leadership Awards (RYLA) and sustain Interact and Rotaract clubs, and also do
projects that benefit local schools and improve the reading ability of school children, adding: “Reading makes a man” so says the adage. Earlier in his remarks, the Chairman of the occasion, Sen. Eze Ajoku urged Rotary Club to collaborate with the Coalition Of Societies For the Rights Of Older Persons In Nigeria (COSROPIN) to advance the needs of older persons in Abuja and the country at large.