• Semifinals battle on StarTimes’ new W-Sport Morocco versus Nigeria promises to be the most intriguing clash, yet, of the ongoing African Women Cup of Nations, which semifinals begin today. The Nigerian girls are defending champions, who have their game since losing their opening match to South Africa. Pundits have installed them as favourite to retain the title they won in Ghana four years ago. Morocco are hosts and command a large support base that have confounded all their opponents thus far in this competition. And so the stage is set for a match that guarantees a feast for every fan or stakeholder this night at the Complexe Prince Moulay Abdellah in Rabat from 9.00 p.m. Moroccan fans have turned their team’s match venues into an intimidating stage for all their opponents, but in Super Falcons, the North Africans are presented an opposition that fears no foe.
 
Monday night’s spectacle will see the Falcons aim for their 10th final match of the Women AFCON, since the competition was launched as a biennial event in Nigeria 24 years ago. They have never failed to win a final match, and victory over Cameroun on Thursday affirmed that they had never failed to reach the tournament’s last four.
 
However, on the evidence of their performance at the Aisha Buhari Women’s Football Tournament that Nigeria hosted in September last year and their run at this championship, the Lionesses do not deserve to be treated with kid gloves. Coach Reynald Pedros will bank on the deft touches and dribbling skills of Fatima Tagnaout on the left side of the pitch, as well as the courageous and lethal Sanaâ Mssoudy at the fore. The Super Falcons must be wary of these two players especially.
 
On his part, Coach Randy Waldrum could start with an energetic attacking line comprising of three-goal Rasheedat Ajibade, Uchenna Kanu and Francisca Ordega, with the nifty Gift Monday also a possibility. Christy Ucheibe, Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene and Halimat Ayinde should retain their places in the middle, with Captain Onome Ebi leading a rearguard that will shield goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie.
 
Meanwhile, Nigerians can watch the match live and in HD on StarTimes’ World Football channel. StarTimes recently added W-Sport channel dedicated to Women’s Sport. W-Sport offers up to seven live football games a week from the best leagues in the world. This July, W-Sport channel is airing live matches of Women’s Euro 2022 and Women’s Copa America. Other women’s sports on the channel include motorsports, basketball, volleyball and cycling, among others.  The channel is currently available to dish users (DTH) on StarTimes.