Tired minds don’t plan well. Sleep first, plan later – Walter Reisch (1903-1983), Austrian director and screen writer Sir: No one sleeps less and lives well, no! The quality of a man’s health and life is largely determined by the quality of his sleep. A healthy life is a reflection of good quality sleep, while the opposite reflects a poor insufficient sleep. Certain habits of modern life have taken away sleep from us as humans. Most people go about with a wrong notion that, he who sleeps for the recommended sleep hours at night is lazy or jobless. It is completely untrue as those who sleep less daily aren’t mentally refreshed for proper daily activities. Those who deprive themselves of quality sleep always will someday break down and the rest that sleep ought to have provided will be forced by then. Their bodies would demand for the sleep at a wrong time as nature cannot be cheated. Not too long ago, the annual event of World Sleep Day was celebrated across the globe. The day is usually held the Friday before Spring Vernal Equinox of each year. Reason a day is set aside to celebrate sleep isn’t farfetched. This is because, World Sleep Day, on yearly basis, always reminds everyone who cares about their health to take action on important issues relating to sleep. It is a global awareness act that celebrates sleep and attempts to help those with various sleep challenges. The day also serves as a gentle reminder to everyone who is experiencing sleep disorder as it proffers better ways in the management of sleep. The natural refreshment and vigour that sleep provides cannot be provided by any drug or exercise or activity. It’s not just a nap; it’s not just ordinary sleep; it’s the quality of sleep that can supply the body with the nourishment it needs to become healthy. It is recommended that adults make it a priority to get at least seven hours of nightly sleep in order to give the body the desired rest for refreshed functioning next day. Experts say sleep helps the body and brain to function properly because it improves one’s learning, memory, decision-making and creativity. When the brain functions properly, there is overall increase in concentration and productivity occasioned by a good intelligent quotient. One who sleeps well at night performs well in the day. To catch good and quality sleep, make use of your bed only. Ensure you keep your bedroom cool, quiet and dark when it’s time to sleep. Avoid big or heavy meals right before bed time. Kayode Solomon Ojewale is of the Public Affairs and Enlightenment Department of LASTMA. 