 Today, Canon (www.Canon-CNA.com)  announces the launch of three new models in its i-SENSYS range: two in the MF750 series of colour multifunction printers, plus the LBP673Cdw, a dedicated single-function colour printer. Equipped with new technology, all packed into a compact design, these devices are specifically designed for SMB and SOHO (small office / home office) users, enabling channel partners to access this growing market with the latest security, productivity and connectivity features. These updates are part of an ongoing commitment to refresh the i-SENSYS range, so these businesses remain supported with the most up to date functions.  Expand sales opportunities by capturing small business needs SMBs and SOHO workers are increasingly looking for competitively priced, high-performing solutions to meet their varied and expanding needs. Fast-moving environments like retail, for example, often need to print or scan documents quickly in a shared workspace. With simple, out-of-the-box cloud connectivity, the new i-SENSYS devices allow partners to maximise sales potential thanks to their straightforward functionality and flexibility. Hiro Imamura, Vice President, Marketing & Innovation, Digital Printing & Solutions at Canon Europe, says: “Innovation is key for meeting customers’ evolving needs. That’s why we have refreshed most of the i-SENSYS range this year, to ensure our devices are optimised to answer users’ growing requirements and support our partner community in expanding their market opportunities as a result.” Empowering SMEs with premium productivity features With printing speeds of up to 33pm and 100ipm scanning speeds for the MF750 series, the new range takes productivity to the next level. The devices can also handle a wide variety of media, perfect for those who work with different sized documents daily, such as receipts and labels. Thanks to the simple step-by step set up and a streamlined Wi-Fi process, users can confidently plug and play with no prior IT expertise, ideal for businesses that do not have dedicated technical support. Native cloud connectivity to DropBox, Google Drive and OneDrive simplifies everyday business tasks by enabling printing and scanning directly from cloud storage, while also centralising print management with Microsoft Universal Print support. The devices also boast leading security features, including secure PIN print functionality that restricts access to sensitive documents, and verification upon start up, which assures the device remains protected from malicious attacks. The new models have also decreased in size and weight in order to reduce CO2 consumption during transportation. This, combined with packaging built with sustainability in mind, allows partners to showcase their commitment to offering more sustainable product choices. For more information, please visit: https://bit.ly/3O6GWw1 Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Key Features –  MF750 series Key Features – LBP673Cdw Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
E-mail: Mai.youssef@canon-me.com  APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
E-mail: Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei (https://bit.ly/3O3GZIY) – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: Canon-CNA.com