• Mining responsible for banditry in Wase, says Deputy Speaker
• CSO urges overhaul of security architecture No fewer than seven persons have lost their lives at Pinua village of Wase Local Council of Plateau State as gunmen suspected to be Fulani militia attacked the inhabitants. The Guardian gathered that many of the villagers were seriously injured in the process, as many of them fled into the bush in the night on Saturday. The bandits reportedly killed three persons. However, one of the survivors, Bazuga Ibrahim, narrated, yesterday, that four of those, who were shot, died in the bush. He told The Guardian over 10,000 of them from Pinua village took to their heels when the bandits struck, stressing that the village had been deserted. The Military Information Officer (MIO) of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Maj. Ishaku Takwa, confirmed that there was an incident in the area, but said it was a clash between a vigilante group and bandits. THE Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, has blamed banditry in Wase Local Council of Plateau State on illegal mining activities. Briefing journalists in Jos, yesterday, he urged his constituents to expose the criminal elements wreaking havoc in the city. Government, he said, is aware of its responsibility of protecting life and property and will not fail the citizens in that regard. His words: “We are worried over the destruction of life and property in my constituency and we are doing our best to address the situation. “The primary role of any government is to protect life and property. When we fail to do that, then we have failed in our responsibility. I want to assure our people that we are conscious of our responsibility and we will not fail the people.” Wase noted that the security challenges in the area existed due to colonial mining activities by people from different parts of the country. WORRIED by rising cases of security threat across the country, a Non-Governmental Organisation, Civil Society Countering Conflict Resolution in Nigeria (CS-CRIN), yesterday, advocated total overhaul of the nation’s security architecture. CS-CRIN’s recommendation came as the nation battles with insurgency attack and kidnap of innocent residents along major highways in the country. Besides, CS-CRIN raised the alarm of possible escalation of political violence and social unrest in Kano ahead of 2023 general elections in the state. Addressing the press yesterday, CS-CRIN National Coordinator, Mr. Adeniyi Aremu, explained that government must act fast on security devastation in the country to restore lost confidence in the constituted authority. Adeniyi disclosed that the civil society group “is working on a four-years project” to strengthen community engagement towards peace building and conflict management in Kano.