Over the years, Nigeria’s political space has been male dominated despite women constituting a powerful electorate with millions of votes during elections. At the just concluded Osun State governorship election that produced Senator Ademola Adeleke as winner, women voters constituted 52.76 per cent, while men had 47.24 per cent. In the 2019 general election, women accounted for about 47.14 per cent (39,598,645 million) of the 84,004.084 million registered voters nationwide. Senator Binta Garba  “Nigerian people gave themselves a Constitution, which is the grundnorm, the foundation upon which all other laws are built. The extant one-1999 Constitution (as amended) makes this clear in section 1 wherein it emphatically stated that the Constitution is supreme and its provisions binding on all persons and authorities. It further states that Nigeria can only be governed in line with it and voids any inconsistent law.
  
“The preamble, which begins with ‘we the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria…’ has been said to mean all Nigerians whether male or female. As if to clear all doubts, section 42, which is on nondiscrimination lists a plethora of ground- particular community, ethnic group, place of origin, sex, religion or political opinion.”
 
Okeke, who is also the Executive Director, Centre for Mmadu on Human Rights (C4M) noted that this follows that Nigerian men and women are to enjoy equal advantages and privileges in all spheres of life as any violation flies in the face of the Constitution and must be struck down.  She noted that despite the Constitution and the Act, women’s participation in election particularly as it concerns representation remains poor, saying that this is very worrisome considering their numerical strength, which is almost as much as men.
 
“INEC is empowered to issue regulations, guidelines, or manuals for the carrying on of its functions. Recognising gender equality as stipulated in the Constitution, women’s empowerment as human rights, internationally and regionally recognised and historic disadvantage of women fueled by patriarchy, it came up with INEC Gender Policy (IGP).”
  
She said one of the policy goals of IGP is political party gender equity, “unfortunately INEC is yet to be seen to be doing this, apparent in the fact that no political party presented a female presidential candidate or even vice.
 
“This flies in the face of section 15 on political objectives, which prohibits discrimination on a plethora of grounds similar to those in section 42 and insists on fostering a feeling of belonging and involvement among the various people of the Federation, to the end that loyalty to the nation shall override sectional loyalties.” Dame Pauline Tallen  “Finance is also one of the issues that is restraining women from achieving their political goals. The costs of obtaining these political office forms have always posed a challenge for female politicians. This should be addressed.
 
“Tinubu and Obi should consider women as their running mates. If they consider women, they are already telling the public that they are gender sensitive. This will give women inclusion and a high chance in the scheme of things. If they bring out a woman as a runner it means the woman has lots of chances. But if you bring a man as running mate, you’re automatically saying women are not capable of running political offices.
  
“When it comes to campaigns they go to the women, so why won’t they bring out a woman to be running mate.”
 
Also, the Nigerian Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) has urged candidates of parties to select female running mates to enhance effective female participation in governance.