 [FILES] Baba Ijesha (middle)…after the court session.<br />Photo: JESUTOMI AKOMOLAFE The Lagos State government has listed convicted Nollywood actor Baba Ijesha as a sex offender. Recall that earlier this week; the actor had been sentenced to 16 years imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor by the Ikeja Special Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court. According to new reports, the Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency has listed the actor real name Olanrewaju James on its register of sexual offenders. The Executive Secretary of the agency, Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, said, “All details of sex convicts are immediately enrolled into the sex offenders registers once a conviction is secured.” The state’s Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Dr.Babajide Matins, filed the charge bordering on the indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault by penetration, and sexual assault by penetration against the defendant. The sitting judge Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo acquitted and discharged him of counts one and six, which were: sexual assault by penetration and attempted sexual assault by penetration. However, he was found guilty of four counts out of the other six-count charges brought against him by the Lagos State government. While delivering judgment, Justice Taiwo held that the state failed to prove counts one and six of the charge. He was found guilty and sentenced by the court for sexually assaulting a youngster between 2013 and 2014 and endangering a child’s welfare. The court upheld the prosecution’s successful proof of charges two and three—that he indecently sat the survivor on his lap and inappropriately rubbed his penis against her body. He was also held responsible for sexually abusing a juvenile by caressing her body and sucking her fingers on counts four and five, which involved the same minor. The sentence would run concurrently, according to the judge. Actor Damilola Adekoya’s attorneys have announced that they will appeal the ruling of the Lagos State Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court in Ikeja, Lagos, which sentenced the actor to 16 years in prison on Thursday, July 14, 2022, for sexually assaulting the teenager who is the adopted daughter of famed comedienne Damilola Adekoya, aka Princess.