An Ikeja Special Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court has convicted Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James, alias Baba Ijesha, of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old minor, and sentenced him to 16 years imprisonment.  “The pain of the first prosecution witness (Damilola Adekoya Princess) was real. The girl was scared and we could see the fears in her eyes while she was giving her evidence before the court. She was compelled to make her evidence. “The argument of the defence that the prosecution failed to state the exact age of the survivor cannot stand as the law states that anyone under the age of 18  years  is regarded as a child. “The defendant may not have the thought of having sex with the survivor on that day but he aroused her by sucking her fingers and rubbing her body. He did not take off his clothes while arousing her. “I hereby found the defendant guilty of counts two to five and he is discharged of counts one and six. The defendant is hereby sentenced to five years imprisonment for count two,  three years for count three, five years for count four and three years for count five.”  They are to run concurrently starting from the day he was convicted. The court held that the review of the medical expert; the testimony of the two witnesses; forensic analyst and child expert, Mrs Olabisi Ajayi-Kayode and a medical doctor, Dr. Aniekan Makanjuola showed that there was blunt penetration of the virginal, but couldn’t ascertain the time. “The time has elapsed on the assault and the medical examination, the injury would have been erased since seven years ago. During trial, the prosecution called six witnesses including the survivor, the mother of the victim (Princess), Investigation Officers and medical experts. Four witnesses also testified for the defendant in the case.  “ The defendant took his acting too far. Children are frequently preyed on because of their inability to defend themselves. Baba Ijesha after the judgment broke down in tears, weeping and saying he did not commit the offence. He was however surrounded by his colleagues in the industry who came to console him. 