The unveiling of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s running mate provided the country with a much needed comic relief from the many tragedies that Nigeria has become. Some widely circulated photos and videos showed some poorly dressed bishops and priests at the unveiling of the ill-fated Muslim-Muslim ticket, as though in an attempt to validate the party’s position that religious balancing of the ticket is useless. Nevertheless, it is extremely concerning that the comedy thrived on the sacrilegious, an intentional transgression on the sacred to pull a political fraud on the public. I maintain that its participatory nature makes it even worse than other forms of sacrilege we have come to accept as the norm.  In short, Bayo Onanuga asks us to look to the clergy-politics connection to unravel the mystery of some of the big names we have in Christendom. Actually, no serious-minded Nigerian needed this to be pointed out by anyone else. If you remove the denominations in which ascent to venerated offices is proceduralized and the few, uncompromising clergymen who labour in the open to attain the heights that they occupy, you have left individuals who network their way into the limelight through a mix of tested and trusted business models and psychological manipulation. That is the undeniable reality that stares us all in the face.
 
If a wall does not crack, lizards will not make a home in its belly. Unpopular clergymen would not be chasing morally depraved politicians for money if Christianity, in part, had not sold its highest title to Mammon. Because of the respect accorded big names, some clergymen with container-sized cathedrals would cajole, hoodwink, or even hypnotize their followers and take gbomu-le-lantern loans to raise enough money to buy the title of a bishop. Sadly, the title does not always automatically manufacture wealth, fame, and the privileges that come with them. But collaboration with worthless politicians does, for, besides payoffs, it guarantees return patronage as long as the gold-minded clergymen deliver satisfactorily. But is it appropriate to scold and excoriate adults as if they were toddlers?  We should begin to respect humble laborers who model Christian living in their kiosk-sized churches, while tempering our admiration for big clergymen who live in unexplainable wealth. Our amen should not rend the heavens only when clergymen with presidential connections lead the prayer.
 
In sum, we must discard the religious caste system that we have instituted in Christendom. In faith, there is no privileged birth. Everyone is born of the Spirit of God. Once we single some class of individuals out for veneration above and beyond what we give everyone else who shows the same quality of devotion to the faith and its community, we run foul of the very essence of Christianity. In Christianity, grace is given for service and not for status. Once service, rather than title, starts attracting the dignity it deserves in Christendom and piety enjoys pride of place, it will be difficult for politicians to normalize subjecting the Church to ridicule by collaborating with some black sheep of clergymen. The lines will be clear enough for all to see, and the black sheep that stray yonder will be seen for what they truly are: hirelings. Never for once should we forget that the sacrilege that the clergy-politics connection breeds is hatched by the strangely inordinate value we place on big names in the fold. May we be guided that any religion that constantly clogs the wheel of societal progress will inevitably go into irrelevance. It is time we disentangled Christianity from politics, and the laity’s part in this is to stop feeding the entanglement.
Oladapo wrote from the University of Ibadan.