Commander 9 Brigade Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Isang Akpaumontia has donated over 1, 000 books and a water project to the Premier DaySchool Surulere, Lagos State as part of activities to commemorate the Nigerian Army Day Celebration (NADCEL) 2022. The Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association, NAOWA 9 Brigade Chapter also donated food items and clothing to 100 widows within Ikeja Cantonment. Speaking at the event, Brigadier General Akpaumontia said his decision to give back to society was borne out of a need to address the scarcity of water resources in the school. He disclosed he has observed that pupils of the school now drink from a well which he feared could cripple the health state of the children. While appreciating the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Farouk Yahaya who played a major role in the realisation of the project. He also appluaded the General Officer Commanding 81 Div, Maj. Gen. Umar Musa , for his support towards its actualization while explaining that, the army day celebration was aimed at informing the Nigerian Army personnel and Nigerians of the tragic event in the civil war. “The Nigerian Army uses the Nigeria Army Day which terminates on July 6 of every year, for most effective production, we always watch the performance of the previous year in the Nigerian Army responsibilities in Nigeria in order to protect lives and property. This responsibility has become peculiar in view of security challenges,” Akpaumontia said. “To this effect, the Nigerian Army undertakes different programs for the celebration, which enhances military operations. “It is also aimed at enlightening Nigerians that the Nigeria Army is not always about war, but about love because this personnel also have children, mother, father and sisters who are civilians. “As an old pupil of Lagos State school in Surulere, if you take a look at this building outside, you will see that the roofs are leaking, so I have talked to the Surulere Local Government Area Chairman to try to do something about it.” 