• Tasks parents to live by example in training children
• Charges Ijebu people on unifying element of Ojude-Oba
• Abiodun promises speedy completion of state projects
• Restates commitment to revive, complete Olokola seaport Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said that Nigerians must chose rightly in 2023 for the future of the country. Sanwo-Olu, represented by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Kadri Hamzat, stated this, yesterday, at the 2022 Eidul-Adha celebration organised by the first family of Lagos State. He said Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the right choice for 2023 because he had built bridges across Nigeria, adding that the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate has worked with persons from different regions and ethnic groups in the country. The governor, therefore, urged residents to be loyal and obedient to the state and country. According to him, parents must train their wards in a godly manner and instil in them morals to be obedient, loyal and patient. On her part, the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, noted that the spiritual exercise being celebrated yearly exemplifies the virtue of love, faith and obedience. IN another  development, Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, said that the Ijebu people must never lose sight of the unifying element the yearly celebration of the Ojude Oba festival provides. He said that celebration like Ojude Oba reminds Yoruba that evil will never triumph over good. The governor, who was the special guest of honour at the grand finale of the 2022 edition of the festival, said that the people of Ijebuland at home and in Diaspora have a lot to be proud of, as they showcase their rich culture and history to the world. ALSO, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has assured indigenes of the state of his commitment to complete all ongoing projects and embark on new ones. Besides, he reiterated his administration’s commitment to revive the Olokola Deep Seaport project in the Waterside area of the state. This, he noted, was in line with the transport master plan of the current administration. Abiodun, who spoke at this year’s Ojude Oba festival in Ijebu Ode, said his administration had continued to take the tourism sector as an important factor to drive the economy of the state. He said that the seaport project, located in Ogun Waterside Local Council, would be completed and inaugurated by his administration. “Let me formally announce the revival of the Olokola  Seaport in Ogun Waterside area of the state. This is in line with our transport master plan. And the promise I made to the people and the Awujale of Ijebuland is that the seaport will be built in his lifetime and we will commission it,” he said.