All is now set for the maiden Nigeria 2022 Ludo Championship slated to begin on July 18 at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos. The championship, which is organised by Gbolad Continental Ventures, in conjunction with Lagos State Sports Commission, according to the organisers, will help revive ludo as a widely accepted game, enjoyed by Nigerian families The organisers said the championship would attract participants from all age grades, including people with disabilities. Unveiling the programme for the championship, yesterday, convener of the event, Olaide Graham, said participants would be grouped into two categories, Tertiary and General. “We aim to put the Ludo Championship into Nigeria’s sports calendar, starting with the South West. “The game of Ludo is a sport that helps build strategy and critical thinking. It is a game that can bring unity among people, who cannot engage in such sports as football, basketball and other popular events. “Anybody who wants to feature in the championship can apply through www.ludochampionship.com.ng. “The preliminaries for the tertiary category will hold at the Lagos State University (LASU), while the general category will hold at the Teslim Balogun Stadium. “The grand finale will hold at the Redeemers University, Osun State, on July 23. We call on sponsors to partner with the organisers because ludo is a sport that has no age limit or gender issues. It covers all strata of the society,” she said. She called on sponsors top identify with the sport. Also speaking on the event, Director of Sports Development, Lagos State Sports Commission, Moses Kolawole, said the idea of bringing ludo, as a competitive game to Lagos, is a good initiative. “The State’s sports commission is proud to associate with this venture to revamp a game once enjoyed by Nigerian families, but has been abandoned for a while. “As the Commission continues to monitor activities and programmes in the growth of ludo…we will fashion out plans in future to register the sports as an association in the state. We enjoin Nigerians to embrace the game at the competitive level. Participating in sports brings unity,” he said. 