The Old Students Association of St. Charles Grammar School, under the auspices of Charleans in Diaspora Inc., yesterday, urged the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to resume talks on the current strike and allow students return to schools for their academic activities. The old students expressed worry that the Federal Government and university lecturers suspended further roundtable talks and hibernated, stressing that it might force students to channel their energy to negative things. President of the association, Yemi Ghazali Ajijolaiya, while speaking at the yearly achievement award for students and teachers of the school in Osogbo, organised by Charleans in Diaspora, said continuous idleness of affected students would pose danger to the nation’s security. Meanwhile, the association has awarded some students and teachers of the school who displayed commendable academic excellence and honest work ethics in the last year. “My advice to the Federal Government and ASUU is to return to the table and talk. You can’t resolve any crisis without talking. Currently, I don’t think any discussion is going on and that’s not good for the students who are at the receiving end of this crisis. These young people have a lot of energy and if they are not spending that energy on their education, they will look for something else to spend it on. Unfortunately, more often than not, it’s not on the positive side. So, my strong advice is for the government and ASUU to come back to the roundtable and resolve issues. “The awards are therefore tailored to recognise various students and teachers’ attributes, such as good attitudes, honest work ethics, humanity, determination, a love of learning, and encourage a sense of accomplishments. “We want to create an environment that gives students and teachers recognition for their accomplishments and serve as catalyst for other students to put in their best and contribute to the overall school performance,” Ajijolaiya said. Meanwhile, the Osun State Commissioner for Education, Folorunso Oladoyin, said the cash award event would assist students to channel their efforts towards productive causes and embrace diligence, discipline and other virtues, which the state is known for.