 NEW YORK, NEW YORK – MAY 02: (Exclusive Coverage) (L-R) Pete Davidson and Kim Kardashian attend The 2022 Met Gala Celebrating “In America: An Anthology of Fashion” at The Metropolitan Museum of Art on May 02, 2022 in New York City. (Photo by Cindy Ord/MG22/Getty Images for The Met Museum/Vogue ) Pete Davidson has acknowledged that starting a family is one thing he has not yet accomplished but would dearly love to. The 28-year-old comedian is presently dating a mother of four Kim Kardashian, 41, has been candid about wanting to have his own children. Pete acknowledged that having a child is high on his list of future goals when speaking in a promo for Kevin Hart’s Hart to Heart series, which starts on Peacock on July 14. Pete speaks candidly about his own challenging upbringing, saying, “My childhood was not great. Dad passed early, single mum, new sister, and I just did not handle it great. My sister was like two or three years old so it was just a f**king nightmare.” While his family supported him in pursuing stand-up comedy or anything else that would make him happy and implanted his family man attitude, he admitted that he had a difficult beginning to life after the death of his father Scott, a firefighter who died in the 9/11 terrorist assault in New York. He continued, “‘I’m definitely a family guy. My favourite thing ever, which I have yet to achieve is I wanna have a kid. That’s like my dream. It’s like, super corny.” Kevin chimed in to say, “It’s not super corny, it’s the best goddamn thing you can do in life.” Opening up on what he would like to do when he is a parent Pets said “It would be so fun. Dress up the little dude. I’m so excited for that chapter so that’s kind of what I’m just preparing for now, is just trying to be as good as a dude, develop and get better so when that happens it’s just easier.” Kim and ex-husband Kanye West’s children North, 9, Saint, 6, Chicago, 4, and Psalm, 3, are shared by Kim and Pete. Along with other tattoos dedicated to Kim, Pete also sports the initials of Kim and her children, which read “KNSCP,” inscribed on his collarbone. In a recent interview with the Today show, Kim admitted that she made Pete wait six months before presenting him to her kids. She said: “I definitely wanted to wait six months, and that was the marker.” 