Key Verse: Romans 1:18, “For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,” (NKJV). Text: Romans 1:18-32 Satan is the god of what is today called the world system. The world system is under the control, direction and supervision of Satan and his horde of demons. They have been in action for so many years and have known how to hold men captive. They moved into the Garden of Eden and deceived our first parents, Adam and Eve. We are to date still suffering from the outcome of the unfortunate circumstances that made our first parent leave the Garden of Eden. After the fall of Adam and Eve, the devil began to work on their children (men), making them always think of evil and also, act them out. The devil is not comfortable with the children of Adam and Eve living a righteous life, he believes that allowing them to do so will make them be as wise as God and would as such be able to identify what is good and bad. According to him, if men could differentiate what is good from evil, they will dwell with God forever; so he made them inclined to evil thoughts and actions. With this, the world was filled with wickedness and evil, so, God when he saw that the wickedness of men was great (Genesis 6:5) he destroyed the world. You should not be surprised each time you see evil being perpetrated by people around you. The Bible has already revealed that every intent of man’s heart is evil, full of wickedness and abomination. In fact, something has to be done otherwise man will be lost forever. The days of Hophni and Phinehas are not over with silly women all over the place. The heart of man is deceitful and desperately wicked (Jeremiah 17:9). What are we going to do about this? Only God has the answer. The heart of man is filled with evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, theft, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, blasphemy, pride and foolishness (Mark 7:20-23). And because of all this, man cannot make it to the kingdom of God. Matthew 25:41 tells us that hell was not made for man, but man by choice wants to go to hell. There is so many catalogues of sins in the Bible of which the longest is in Romans Chapter 1. It is good to read these things from time to time, as it will make you ask yourself the following questions: “Have I really been delivered and am I really saved? Am I making a fool of myself?” The Bible tells us that the wrath of God is revealed from Heaven against these catalogue of sins, all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men (Romans 1:18). Anything that does not come from God, anything that is not pleasing to God and anything that is not acceptable to God, the wrath of God is revealed against them. God is every day angry at the ungodly. God is every day angry at the unrighteous. Psalm 7:11 says that God is a just Judge, but He is every day angry at the wicked. Psalm 9:17 says that the wicked and all the nations that forget God shall be turned into hell. Who are these wicked people? They are the ungodly, the Christless, the godless and the worldly people; they are wicked. They never get it right and it is not that they do not know what is right, but they do not want to do what is right. • Today’s nugget: God is every day angry at the unrighteous. Prayer: Lord, help me to turn away from all ungodliness. Prayer lines: 08054477940. E-mail: servantofgod111@yahoo.com. Rev. Pastor Ejikeme Ejim, General Superintendent, Assemblies of God Nigeria 