Fresh from a 4-0 defeat of Burundi in their last group game at the ongoing Africa Women Cup of Nations, Super Falcons have promised to beat Cameroun in Thursday’s quarterfinal clash in Casablanca. The Super Falcons arrived in Casablanca, yesterday, to begin preparations for Thursday’s clash, which a win will guarantee the victor qualification for the FIFA Women World Cup. According to Super Falcons’ Media Officer, Oluchi Tobechi, the team is camped at Novotel Hotel, Mohammedia area of Casablanca. She disclosed that the team had their first training session (light walk out) in the city last night. Looking forward to a successful outing against old customers, Cameroun, Falcons’ two-goal heroine against Burundi, Uchenna Kanu, said the team is primed for success in the quarterfinal clash. She said the clash would be a repeat of 2016 final in which Nigeria defeated Cameroun 1-0 in Yaoundé to win its eight title. The Falcons, then led by Florence Omagbemi, defeated South Africa 2-0 before beating Cameroun with the winning goal coming through Desire Oparanozie. Although Oparanozie is no longer in the squad, Kanu believes Nigeria has a formidable side that would maintain Falcons’ superiority over the Indomitable Lionesses. Kanu, who scored two goals against Burundi in Nigeria’s 4-0 win on Sunday, said: “Judging from our training and previous games, we are improving and ready for any team. ” The Mexico-based striker expressed her conviction that the Super Falcons are hitting their heights and would no longer stoop low for Cameroun in Casablanca. Cameroun have not lost any game in the competition, playing two draws in their first two games before beating Tunisia 2-0 in their last game. Apart from a semifinal ticket, a bigger pie on offer for any team that makes it to the last four is the ticket to the 2023 World Cup in Australia. “We know others are improving, as well, but we are ready to match up with any team that comes our way. It’s going to be a tough game against Cameroon but we are ready to face them,” she said.