Greensprings School has won the boys and girls’ categories of the maiden Nigeria Secondary Schools Flag Football League held at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos. At the championship organised by the Nigeria America Football Association (NAFA), Greensprings girls defeated Keke High School 6-0 to win the girls’ trophy, while their boys defeated Baptist Academy in a thrilling encounter, which ended 13-12 in favour of Greensprings. The Secretary General of NAFA, Lawrence Ojaideh, said the Flag Football League was organised by the body to teach and expose Nigerian youths to America football and gradually transform them to the main aspect of the sport. “Our vision in NAFA is to take more Nigerian youths out off the streets through sports. “Introducing flag football is another way to gradually groom the youths on American football. We are delighted that secondary school students have started embracing the sport, which would soon be taken to other aspects of the society. “NAFA wants to make Nigeria another hub of American football by catching them young. “The international body has mandated Nigeria to produce a team for the flag football championship in Ireland next year, so, outstanding talents discovered from various schools in the league will make up the national team that will represent the country at the championship. “More grassroots championships would be held to discover more talents in America football.” At the event, two sister universities overseas, owned by Prof. Chris Imumolen, Global Wealth University and South America University, awarded educational scholarships to schools that qualified for the semifinals of the league. Imumolen, who is one of the sponsors of the Flag Football Championship and presidential aspirant of the Accord Party, said the scholarships would give the students opportunity to pursue their university dreams. “American football is a fast growing sport in the world and helping Nigerian students grow in the sport is another opportunity to develop talents. “In Nigeria, education should be promoted with sports. These days, sports and entertainment pay more than education… that is why it is important to develop talents together with educating them. “Awarding scholarships worth more than N2 million each to students that participated in the championship will go a long way to add value in their career. The university scholarship is another step in my giving back to the society. People need to sponsor sports in Nigeria,” he said. Over 40 schools participated in the event. Agege Girls School, Army Girls School, Keke High School and Greensprings School made it to the last four of the girls’ category, while Oshodi Senior High School, Baptist Academy, Greensprings School, Amuwo Odofin Secondary School also made it to the last four in the boys’ category. 