• Adesina attributes recognition to employees’ impact Publish What You Fund, the global Campaign for Aid and Development Transparency, has named the African Development Bank (AfDB) the most transparent organisation in the world. Released yesterday with a top score of 98.5, the Bank’s sovereign portfolio now ranks first out of 50 global development institutions in Publish What You Fund’s 2022 Aid Transparency Index. Reacting to the top ranking, elated President of AfDB, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, attributed the recognition to the relentless efforts of the more than 2,000 personnel across its organisation, whom he said works tirelessly to accelerate Africa’s progress. He said they consistently deliver top quality under the highest levels of scrutiny. “I am incredibly proud of them. I commend Publish What You Fund for their important mission, combining robust research and technical expertise with targeted advocacy and engagement to make aid and development efforts more transparent and effective,” he said. Senior Vice President, AfDB, Swazi Tshabalala, who expressed delight with the score, said the Bank had worked hard over the years to improve the disclosure of its aid flows by providing consistent, high-quality and easily accessible data. He stated that the score is an index that played a key role in helping promote openness and greater transparency among international agencies. The Guardian gathered that the AfDB achieved the highest score in the Aid Transparency Index’s 10-year history and moved into the top spot from its fourth-place ranking in 2020. Publish What You Fund’s ‘very good’ status is the highest of the five categories used to assess organisations’ transparency. The ranking is based on several criteria. They include finance and budgets, basic information data, organisational planning and performance. Chief Executive Officer, Publish What You Fund, Gary Foster said: “We congratulate the African Development Bank’s sovereign portfolio for achieving first place in the 2022 Aid Transparency Index. For many years now, the AfDB has engaged to understand the demands of the Index, and they have  re-engineered their approach to disclosure, accordingly publishing more comprehensive, higher quality data. This has been made possible because the efforts of their technical staff are matched by commitment to aid transparency from the highest levels of the organisation.”