It is a generally accepted fact that every election is determined by those citizens who show up to cast their votes. By implication, therefore, the ideology, conviction, aspiration of such citizens ultimately influences the direction of the choices they do make. Many, out of ignorance of the law of ‘cause and effect’ step out to make such choices thoughtlessly, without any regards to future consequences. It is thoughtless to base an electoral choice on primordial sentiments of ethnicity and religion, rather than on the well scrutinized, interrogated and verified credentials of the candidates. We are, once again, fast approaching another election season in Nigeria. All things being equal, February 2023 would see all qualified voters turn out at various polling booths across the length and breadth of Nigeria to cast their votes for preferred candidates. This short essay seeks to look at the spiritual dimensions to the choices to be made among preferred candidates; which choices are often made without clear personal sense of conviction. Just to be clear, conviction can only arise through an objective (unbiased) analysis or examination of a subject matter. A typical voter in a country as diverse as Nigeria firstly profiles his/her candidate along primordial leanings such as ethnicity, language, religion, etc. Depending on level of exposures and experiences in life, the voter holds to these sentiments in liberal terms or with tenacious rigidity. Many no longer bother to consider the quality of the candidates, and totally overlook the capacity to deliver on their usually well choreographed electoral promises. It is a well known fact that many candidates never really took time to develop their manifesto based on personal convictions, but rather usually hired the best writers and political strategists to ‘copy and paste’ for them what they would ‘sell’ to the masses; much the same way marketing agencies develop their advert copies. Same attitude attends to the constitution of most political parties in Nigeria, which have all shown marked absence of clear ideologies. Little wonder then that politicians easily decamp from one political platform to another, without any noticeable change in personal convictions. The past failures of previous governments in Nigeria to match their performance with earlier campaign promises show clearly that such promises were simply ‘used’ to win votes; to gain political power. Politicians have so well mastered the art of deceit and deception that they are ready to deploy top level manpower to counter all genuine efforts to draw attention to their failures; rather than openly apologize over such failures. They are also prepared to deploy lies and fraudulent manipulation of facts and figures to keep the citizens applauding for clear below- average performances; rather than honourably resigning from such positions. Nigeria has therefore suffered unmitigated erosion of her stature as the most populous black nation of the world due to the dubious tactics of political office seekers and holders. Who, however, should take the blame? The masses, of course, are to take full blame! It was Roald Dahl who once stated that “Somewhere inside of all of us is the power to change the world.” What may not be obvious to many is that this ‘power’ may be exercised in a positive or also a negative manner. Many voters in Nigeria in our recent experiences simply voted because the candidate greased their palms in what we now call ‘stomach infrastructure’, or also because the candidate came from their ethnic region or professed the same religious belief. Most times, they do not carry out any proper interrogation of the capacity of the candidate, as well as their antecedents. There is no candidate that does not have a past history, and this gives immediate clue as to the true nature of the candidate. Human beings do not change easily, no matter the promises and outward façade they put forward. The overall character of any human being develops over a long stretch of time, and could only be altered through life changing experiences. So, a calm review of the personality of any candidate would always reveal their true character. It is character that makes a leader! In addition, we should also remember always that the spiritual destiny of a country or nation is definitely determined by the citizens’ electoral choices. It is only such choices that are free; whilst the consequences usually follow the automatic dictates of the spiritual laws of ‘sowing and reaping’. In other words, even in electoral choices, citizens are made to ‘reap what they have sown’ through the electoral processes. Every four years such opportunity presents itself to Nigerians. The next such determining moment comes early in the year 2023. There is also another aspect that requires deep reflections. It comes in the form of what some people already know as the law of numbers. For this group, it is believed that in the spiritual significance of numerology the aggregation of numbers represents an amplification or accentuation of energy, and that each number conveys deep spiritual significance which may influence man in his actions and ultimate fate. Those familiar with the scriptures may recall the numbers 444 and 666. These numbers hold spiritual significances for the fate of humanity. For our purpose here, the number 2023 comes into focus. Let us do a calculation of the individual numbers 2+0+2+3, which would give us the summation of seven ‘7’. Seven holds great significance as it expresses the Spiritual Will of higher Forces of Creation. In the number ‘seven’, the Law of Reciprocal Actions vibrates most strongly and decisively. It means, for us, that next year’s elections in Nigeria would present a unique opportunity for the country to determine a new direction for herself. This direction would be up-building if it swings in the Will of God, and if the citizens’ electoral decisions are influenced by altruistic and pure intuitively guided aspirations, instead of mundane sentiments. This means consideration about love and true humanity; welfare of the wider members of the society. It would also put the greater interest of the citizens of Nigeria above self centered clannish considerations. It would be electoral decisions carried out with reverence to the omniscient powers of Almighty Creator. Unegbe, Esq. is a lawyer and lecturer, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. (0803-320-1244) 