Sir: Domestic violence is prominent in Nigeria as in other parts of Africa. Cases of domestic violence are on the high and show no signs of reduction in Nigeria, regardless of age, tribe, religion or even social status. Domestic violence is abusive or intimidating behaviour in a relationship. It occurs when someone uses violence or manipulation to maintain power and control over someone they’re close to. It can involve violence, intimidation, threats, insults or psychological manipulation.
   
Domestic violence takes many forms including physical, sexual, emotional and mental. Traditionally, domestic violence is committed against females. Common forms of violence against women in Nigeria are rape, acid attacks, molestation, wife beating, and corporal punishment. The abuse can involve a partner or ex-partner, a guardian, a family member, or anyone who is in close contact with another person. Anyone, regardless of his or her background, can involve in an abusive relationship. Domestic violence can affect people in the community, regardless of their level of income, status, gender, age, race or culture. Most victims, however, are women and children and most perpetrators are male.  Incidents of domestic violence in Nigeria include battery, beatings, torture, acid baths, rape, and consequently, death. It is, however, estimated that approximately one in every three women suffers domestic violence and intimate partner violence from the hands of those who claim to love and supposedly, protect them. The menace is eating deep as most of the victims do not speak out about violations of their rights, a result of nonchalance, insensitivity, and negative response from their immediate family and society at large.
 
The Nigerian government has taken legal proceedings to prosecute men who abuse women in several states. There is currently a push in Nigeria for federal laws concerning domestic violence and for a stronger national response and support for domestic violence issues. Several NGOs have come up to give legal support and care to victims of domestic violence. Since most victims of domestic violence may not have the willingness or resources to pursue justice, these Non-Governmental Organisations stand in for them.