Lekki Adult Literacy And Vocational Centre (LALVC) has graduated its first set of students. Twenty-five of them graduated on the same day that the centre matriculated about 60 learners. Speaking at the ceremony, Coordinator and Trustee, LALVC, Joe Mbulu, said the vision to restore faulty academic foundations and to give hope to the hopeless in the society brought forth LALVC. He noted that it is a nine-month programme certified by the Lagos State Educational board. “When LALVC was established, we just wanted to help adults, who could not read or write. However, we have since come to realise that the vision is way bigger that just reading and writing. At the core of this mandate is the transformation of not just Learners, but the facilitators. The learners are getting transformed through the unique teaching approach adopted by LALVC.” Mbulu said in 2021, after the inaugural matriculation, they observed a significant impact on the confidence of learners, as well a big boost in the support network. This has culminated in a group of very willing and eager learners with an infectious enthusiasm for learning and for life. “With such a learning environment, how could one walk away? How could one-stop investing, how could one truncate the learning process at reading and writing?” he asked. He stated their desire is to attract partners who will invest in strengthening the LALVC programmes, enlarge coverage and extend their care beyond basic education, towards secondary and tertiary education and vocational training. Representing Director, Lagos State Agency for Mass Education, Mrs Oluwakemi Kalesanwo, Mrs Seriki Olayemi, said the programme empowers individuals, reduce poverty, helps attain gender equality and improves lives. She noted that the agency has 703 Literacy centres across the state and collaborates with NGOs, local government, LCDA and others on literacy projects, which are run free of charge. She applauded the work done by Redeem Christian Church of God to help reduce illiteracy in the state and assured them of the government’s support. PICP, RCCG Lagos Province 20 Headquarters, Pastor Tunde Netufo, said the essence of the project is to repair faulty foundation, as it is never late to cure illiteracy, adding that the solution is commitment and sacrifice. Chairman Ibeju- Lekki Local Council Development Area, Abdullahi Sesan, said a major challenge, especially for youths in his constituency, is education, as a lot of them are out of school. He, however, applauded the state government for its efforts in the community. According to him, there is no better legacy to give someone than education and he challenged people to take advantage of the opportunity for personal growth.