Imo State Governor, Sen Hope Uzodimma, has insisted that the 14 youths allegedly murdered by operatives of Ebubeagu are bandits. Uzodinma said the claims that the victims killed at Otulu Awomamma in Oru East Local Government Area were innocent youths returning from a wedding ceremony as distractive propaganda to blackmail his government. The governor spoke on Monday after the Imo State Security Council meeting and added that his government will not be distracted in its quest to protect the lives and property of Imo citizens. He stated that the government had been briefed on the incident by the Director of State Services, in an interim report made available to members of the Security Council. He said while the Security Council awaits a detailed report on the incident, the public should be wary of those using the incident as a propaganda tool to blackmail the security agencies and the government. Also, Uzodimma describes as a fallacy, the claim on social media and sections of the traditional media about a 15-year-old girl being allegedly impregnated in the DSS detention. He said security report disclosed that two ladies were caught with bandits about six months ago and have been helping the DSS in identifying and arresting other dangerous bandits in the state. “Incidentally, the so-called 15 year old lady happens to be the girl friend to a key gang leader of the bandits terrorizing the state and on the trail of the DSS operatives,” Uzodimma said. “Security report has  shown that the fleeing gang leader had reached out to his sponsors who have resorted to using the 15 year old lady in question to blackmail the DSS and divert attention. “The whole thing boils down to propaganda and blackmail targeted at the Security agencies. “You know I will never allow anything ungodly to happen in Imo State. Their target is to puncture the relative peace the security agencies have helped us to achieve in Imo State and we are determined to sustain the peace. We won’t be deterred. No amount of propaganda will make us to loose focus.” 