SIR: The giant of African has been struggling to provide itself with good governance, vibrant economy, security, developmental and solid infrastructural facilities. In all its struggles, there are only few recorded successes – some of which have failed to address crucial issues of insecurity, unemployment, solid education facilities and the assurance of a bright, competitive and strong nation that could contend and compete with other advanced nations and even in Africa, where it is perceived as its leading country with hope of a better and strong African nation. Our current situation reminds me of one of New York Times Bestsellers, titled First Things First, by Stephen R. Covey, et al. In going through this book, our country’s situation can, from my own perspective, with issues surrounding our unstable growth, be looked at from the perspective of not putting first things first, after undergoing colonial and military era of governance.  A bright and prosperous nation, with blessed resources in terms of natural and human capital resources, now behaves as if it were a poor nation only to be rescued by loans and oppressive governance of its people. Since independence in 1960, we have focused on divisive and oppressive politics and selective infrastructural developments even where the local situation cannot sustain the facilities invested in. Our politicians seek positions for their own self-fish interests.  Billions of naira had been wasted on huge development projects that are of no value to some sectors of our country but of value to other countries’ interests.  Politicians ignored the development of their locality for their selfish interests. We also failed to recognise that Nigeria, our country is made up of different tribes and that we all have our various values, languages, beliefs and other differences that ought to be fully harnessed and turned to positive advantages as in the days of our political founding fathers, Sir Ahmadu Bello, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and indeed in the then Southern Cameroun, Dr. Endeley of blessed memories. The solution must be tackled from the point of cleansing the political terrain, stopping ‘the unpatriotic politicians, from holding political positions and compelling political parties to present a manifesto and account for their promises.
 
Obviously, wrong people have been deployed to represent government. We are close to next election; let us remind one another that the peace, stability, progress and security of this country is paramount to all stakeholders.   Let us stop the myopic, self seeking, status seekers who have no interest of the country at heart.
Segun Openiyi wrote from Ikeja, Lagos.