No fewer than 731 Nigerian journalists applied for accreditation to cover the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games, which begins July 28, the Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC) has disclosed. It said although a few of the applicants were denied accreditation, the NOC intervened to ensure that genuine applicants sailed through. Speaking when a delegation of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Lagos chapter, paid him a courtesy visit, NOC Secretary General, Olabanji Oladapo, said the committee has done everything required to ensure that Nigerians did not face any issues at the Games. “No fewer than 731 Nigerian journalists applied for the accreditation, the highest we have ever had. A large number were declined and it took the intervention of the NOC and Commonwealth Games Federation to get the number eventually accredited to cover the games,” he said. “I will appeal to journalists covering the games to project the image of the country positively. I also urge those travelling to adhere to the rules and regulations put in place by the organisers. “This has been a long time coming. On behalf of the NOC President, Habu Gumel, I would like to thank you for visiting us.” Earlier, the SWAN delegation, led by its Chairman, Debo Oshundun, told the NIOC scribe that the thank you visit was in recognition of the technical support given to journalists members interested in travelling to Birmingham for the games. “We are grateful for the assistance rendered to our members during their accreditation, approval and visa issuance. We will remember this for a long time because many of our interested members (young and old) got visas to cover one of the most prestigious multi-sports events on earth,” he said. As the nation countdown to this year’s Games, Oshundun promised that SWAN members would put Nigeria first in its reportage and focus on the exploits of the athletes. “Our members are once again determined to put Nigeria first. The athletes are our top priorities. We want to tell their stories the best we can and project their activities to the world and Nigerians back home.” Also in the Lagos SWAN delegation were its Secretary, Bunmi Ogunyale, and the association’s assistant secretary, Oni Afolabi.