SIR: The buzz about who presides over the affairs of Nigeria come 2023 has heightened, especially with the election of presidential flagbearers by political parties. This has generated a high level of interest among many Nigerians, especially the youth, as evident in the massive on-going voter-registration in the country. Little wonder, the Permanent Voters Card (PVC) seems to be the new national DNA of the franchised Nigerian! Whatever be the triggers of this new political consciousness by a hitherto indifferent citizenry, its outcomes herald the emergence of a politically active and responsible electorate. In what could be termed an ideological revolution, many Nigerians now realise the nexus between their political behaviour and socio-economic wellbeing and are poised to take decisive actions that would reshape their future for good. Realities place the fate of Nigerians on the quality of leadership that they choose for the country, especially at the centre.  This decisive choice will be made by a majority of the electorate – fortunately, because it underscores democracy but unfortunately, because many Nigerians do not have adequate political enlightenment to take favourable electoral decisions and actions. The 2023 presidential election will be a zero-sum contest in which the Nigerian public either win all or lose all. It is therefore not an election for just any section, tribe or religion of the country to win or lose – Nigerians need one another across all divides. Re-orientating the parochial and unaware section of the electorate to that level of political thinking and maturity is imperative for making the right choice of leadership. Clarifications should be made that it is not Nigerians who are in contest with one another but the political parties or their flagbearers. Voters need to be cautioned that political parties/contestants who will attempt to buy their vote are those who have not earned it and therefore do not deserve it. They should be informed that good leadership results in good governance and vice versa. It must be understood that governance is a measure of the collective good that happens to the citizenry and not only to a few. It should be emphasized that the uniform identity needed in this ideological revolution is ‘the Nigerian,’ while the new tribe is ‘Nigeria’ and ‘nationalism’ the new political creed. Therefore, proven competence and patriotism rooted in inclusivity should underscore the leadership preference of the electorate at the presidential polls. The enlightened members of the electorate and other well-meaning agents of political socialisation should not be found at daggers drawn with their unenlightened counterpart, while their adversaries walk away with electoral spoils. They should rather lead their new converts to the polls persuasively and convincingly, for the sake of their collective future. Generally, the 2023 presidential election in Nigeria is neither a destination nor a journey in which Nigerians see their leaders off to the cockpit and alight. It is the beginning of a long journey with their chosen leaders, under whose captainship they must either navigate through the socio-economic storms that confront the nation or sink with the deficiencies of poor leadership selection.
• Emmanuel Ikechukwu Igbo.