Ahead of the 2022 World Hepatitis Day holding today, World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned that more than 91 million Africans live with the deadliest B or C strains of the disease. A scorecard, yesterday, by the global agency, showed that 70 per cent of Hepatitis B infections worldwide occur in Africa, with 70 per cent of the cases found among children younger than five years, translating to 4.5 million African children infected. The Viral Hepatitis Scorecard 2021 reviewed data from the African region but focused on Hepatitis B and C, both of which cause liver cirrhosis and cancer. It found that in 19 countries, more than eight per cent of the population is infected with Hepatitis B, while in 18 countries, more than one per cent of the population lives with Hepatitis C. In 2020, the region accounted for 26 per cent of the global burden for Hepatitis B and C and 125,000 associated deaths.
The document noted: “Around 70 per cent of Hepatitis B infections worldwide occur in Africa. It can take decades after infection before an individual starts manifesting symptoms. Thus, what is particularly worrying for the future is that the region accounts for 70 per cent of the global Hepatitis B cases found among children younger than five years, with 4.5 million African children infected. Currently, 33 countries have a Hepatitis B prevalence of more than one per cent among children younger than five years, which is a small improvement from 40 countries in 2019.” WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, said: “Hepatitis has been called the silent epidemic, but this scorecard is sounding an alarm for the region and the world to hear. “We must do better and stop this disease from stealing away our children’s future. There is a safe and effective vaccine that offers nearly 100 per cent protection against Hepatitis B, one of the deadliest strains of the virus. We must ensure that all African children are vaccinated within 24 hours of their birth and are followed up with two or more doses of the vaccine.” The scorecard also found that coverage for routine childhood vaccination against Hepatitis B was 72 per cent for the region, well below the global target of 90 per cent geared at ensuring that the virus no longer poses a public health menace. The number of countries with more than 90 per cent coverage has increased from 23 in 2019 to 27 in 2021. Additionally, while the birth dose vaccine is administered in only 14 African countries, at an overall coverage of 10 per cent, it is an increase from 11 countries in 2019. Hepatitis can be spread through contaminated blood products and much more progress is needed to ensure blood safety. In the African region, only 80 per cent of blood donations are screened with quality assurance, while five per cent of syringes are re-used. Only six syringes are distributed per injecting drug user, compared to the global yearly target of 200. 