Sir: The deadly attack on Kuje Prison which is located in the capital city of Nigeria, Abuja on Tuesday night remained afresh in the hearts of Nigerians all over the world. Nigeria for years has been suffering from multitude of security challenges that always claim the lives of innocent citizens while destroying valuable properties worth millions. In Nigeria today nobody is safe since gunmen have the wherewithal and confidently attack the convoy of the number one citizen (President) despite mammoth security that was accompanying him. The fear of uncertainties when one looks at the faces of residents is a clear indication that government is still passive in securing them from bandits or insurgents. Kuje Prison is where criminals with terrorism-related cases and those with the pedigree of corruption crimes are held. A source stated ‘When they gained access to the facility, the first set of people they set free were inmates from the Counter-Terrorism Unit (CTU) section (popularly called ‘Bomb blast’ by inmates), and some of them pointed in the direction of the cell where Abba Kyari was kept, popularly called ‘Segregation.’” The Islamic State in West Africa Province (ISWAP) says it is responsible for the attack that was launched at Kuje Prison. According to Daily Trust Newspaper, in a clip-on Wednesday night, the terrorist sect showcased some of its men shooting their way into the facility. In the video, Tens of fighters could be sighted seen marching in groups while vehicles and buildings were on fire in 38 seconds video that was released. In the video, an elderly man could be seen dressed in a native outfit also joining the terrorists who were shouting on top of their voices. It is therefore important for all leaders at local, state and national levels to grant security forces formal backings in crushing anyone found guilty of fueling insecurity in Nigeria. Citizens could be of great assistance in securing our territories through an instant alert to security agents on strange persons or activities around them; this would aid in arresting criminals for further investigations. The judiciary on their side should be quick in adjudicating justice, those on mini crimes should be pardoned while others on death row should be executed so as to minimise congestion. Everyone has a role to play in curbing all sorts of criminalities, play your part to make Nigeria a safe country in the world. Mukhtar Garba Kobi .