 Thirty thought leaders from Africa and beyond will appear over the course of one day at South Africa’s premier marketing conference, the Nedbank IMC (https://IMCConference.com). The theme is “Marketing Relevance”.  African marketers, entrepreneurs and creatives are fully aware of the growing importance of customer relevance and at this year’s Nedbank Integrated Marketing Conference (IMC), there will be a host of inspiring speakers who will provide insights and strategies. The conference is known for its hard hitting speaker format – with no sales pitches. Dale Hefer, CEO of the Nedbank IMC, says the power of the conference is in being able to gather so many of Africa’s advertising and marketing thought leaders together in one virtual place, on one day. Marketers will be able to log in to watch this not-to-be-missed pan-African event (www.IMCConference.com) from their computers, laptops or cellular devices. “Marketers are hungry for insight into finding and keeping that elusive yet critical ingredient – relevance. We have brought together the best-of-the best global thought leaders to provide our delegates with answers,” says Dale. Conference host, Gugulethu Mfuphi, will be joined by co-hosts Xolisa Dyeshana, Group Creative Director at Joe Public, and Preetesh Sewraj, CEO of The Loeries. Together they will introduce the Nedbank IMC 2022 line-up, which includes: Virtual tickets are available at R1 999/USD125 Group discounts are available. Book now at IMCConference.com Nedbank IMC 2022 bursaries are available at IMCConference.com/IMC-bursaries/ Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Nedbank IMC Conference. About the Nedbank IMC:
In 2021 a total of 1 300 delegates from 14 countries around the world watched the virtual Nedbank IMC live. Since its launch in 2019 the conference has become known for its 'no sales pitch, one stream, one day only' format and a fascinating group of renowned and specialist speakers. Importantly, the conference is committed to presenting the business case for marketing, driven through the determination to secure marketing’s seat at the boardroom table. The Nedbank IMC is presented in association with the Marketing Association of South Africa, with chartered marketers receiving continuous-professional-development points for attending. The conference is endorsed by the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa.