Sponsor of Nimrod6Nineteen Talent Hunt, Musa Nimrod, has charged volleyball coaches across the country to meaningfully engage youths in their various communities and spread the news of the sport in schools. Speaking during the closing ceremony of the event at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium (ABS), Kaduna State, Nimrod, who is also president, Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF), revealed that in the past, the country had players like Tony Oghuma, Thomas Aroko, Dennis Eleri, Emmanuel Jatto and many others, adding, however, that since the legends retired, their positions have remained vacant. He advised coaches to visit schools in various locations to identify and recruit six feet-plus players to volleyball. “I am using this medium to call on volleyball coaches in the country to engage our youths through volleyball. You will discover these days that most children are not interested in sporting activities and the only way to bring their minds back is by going to schools and identifying new talents. “If you go to North Africa, most of their players are above six feet and we all saw that during the U-19 and U-21 African Volleyball Championship Nigeria hosted. “In the 80s, 90s and early 2000s, Nigeria had tall and intimidating players, but now, it is different. This is a wake up call to coaches and stakeholders that we need to do more,” he said. Nimrod advised young players discovered at the talent hunt continue training to become better players. He added: “The coaches that trained them during the talent hunt are some of the best handlers in the country. Do not relent when you get to your various destinations because they have given you solid background knowledge of the basics of volleyball.” Also speaking, Head Coach of COAS Spikers, Elishama Elam, commended the players for their commitment and dedication during the exercise, adding that some of the players have the potential to become great players if given the necessary attention. Among the coaches that participated in the programme were chairman of Nigeria Volleyball Coaches Association, Elishama Elam, Head Coach of Nigeria Correctional Service, Adamu Nitte and Head Coach, Kada Emeralds, Vincent Unogwu. 