As institute proffers solution to farmers/herders’ clashes, food insecurity, others COMMANDANT-GENERAL (CG) of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Dr. Ahmed Audi, has advised Nigerians to be vigilant in the face of current challenges in the land, stating that security is everybody’s business. He gave the advice at the quarterly media briefing of the agency, yesterday, in Abuja. The CG canvassed support for security agencies through information supply by Nigerians for reliable intelligence that could contain the wave of insecurity in the country. Audi said his team was deploying fresh strategies in taming the monster for effective protection of the masses and electorate before, during and after the 2023 general elections. THIS is even as the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS), yesterday, identified climate change as likely cause of farmers/herders’ clashes, drought, loss of farmland, desert encroachment, food insecurity and migration. Its Commandant, Ayodele Adeleke, made the submission, yesterday, at a workshop organised for participants of the Executive Intelligence Management Course (EIMC 15) with the theme: “The Global Climate Challenge: Prospects and Priorities for Economic Development and Conflict Resolution in Africa.” While maintaining that the attendant effects of global warming on human lives could not be overstressed, Adeleke expressed the hope that the forum would provide perspectives on the problems. He said: “We are all aware of the global climate change and its attendant effects on human lives: loss of farmland, desert encroachment, food insecurity, drought, migration, farmers-herders clashes et cetera. “The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), also known as the Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1992, United Nations Climate Change Conference 2015 – COP 21 (Paris Agreement), United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), 2021 – COP 26 (Glasgow, Scotland) and other coalitions highlighted how different social, economic and environmental factors are interdependent and evolve together and (also) how success in one sector requires action in others to be sustained over time. “The presentations and discussions of today would create an avenue to dissect both sides of climate challenge, the pros and cons.” The NISS boss went on: “How has it affected the environment and the inhabitants negatively and can it in any way impact positively on our economy? What are the conflicts associated with climate challenge and how have they been or can be resolved? What further impact is the Russia and Ukraine war having on the theme? “This seminar will be thought-provoking and it is on this note, that I appreciate the keynote presenter and discussants for agreeing to impact on the participants.” He explained that the yearly event was one of the highlights of the course that the institute places utmost premium.