500 storm Niger forest from Kaduna
Bandits have killed six persons and carted away food items in Pinau Village of Wase Local Council of Plateau State. The incident occurred on Wednesday, five days after the residents raised the alarm over withdrawal of soldiers from the area, a sad development that forced hundreds of the residents to vacate their homes for Wase town. Before their withdrawal, The Guardian gathered, the soldiers seemed equally helpless, as the road to the communities was unmotorable. Contacted, the Military Information Officer (MIO) of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Maj. Ishaku Takwa, said that troops had been drafted there to keep the peace. But he did not say whether the soldiers would be there permanently despite the bad terrain. The residents explained that the terrorists entered the community and started shooting randomly, which led to injuries. According to Garba Kasuwa, who also fled his home, the assailants came in their numbers on motorcycles with heavy guns. In another development, troops of OPSH have neutralised bandits and recovered weapons in Shendam Local Council. The Director, Defence Media Operation (DMO), Maj-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, stated, on Wednesday, that the troops also intercepted rail vandals in Barkin Ladi Local Council. MEANWHILE, residents of Rafi Local Council of Niger State were thrown into panic on Wednesday, as no fewer than 500 bandits with sophisticated weapons reportedly entered Niger State on motorcycles through Birnin-Gwari Local Council of Kaduna State. The Guardian gathered from security sources that the bandits might use Niger as their tactical operational base to advance more attacks on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and environs. The source advised residents of the state to provide useful information that would assist security operatives smoke out the bandits from their hideouts. According to a resident of Kagara town, who pleaded anonymity, bandits, en route Birnin-Gwari, pass through Rafi almost daily. Urging governments at all levels to do the needful to protect the residents, he applauded the proactivity of security agencies in the area. Efforts to confirm the report from the spokesman of Niger State Police Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, did not yield result, as calls and text messages sent to his cell phone were not responded to. 