Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Sunday, expressed gratitude to Nigerians and everyone following his recent successful surgery. Osinbajo’s gratitude is coming following his tweet on his handle @ProfOsinbajo, sharing a photo in which he was seen with a walking stick. The tweet, however, did not offer further clarification whether the Vice President has been discharged from the hospital or not. Osinbajo underwent a surgical operation on July 16 on his left leg, at the Duchess International Hospital, Ikeja, Lagos. The presidency explained that it came following a recurrent pain in the leg, believed to have been sustained from injury while playing squash. However, a statement personally signed by Osinbajo and made available to newsmen yesterday read: “My deep gratitude to everyone for your get-well wishes and prayers following my surgery. “And special appreciation to the amazing team of surgeons, doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, and the management of the Duchess International Hospital, Lagos, for providing such excellent care.” Recall that the doctor who performed the operation to treat the recurrent pain caused by a fracture penultimate Saturday night had announced that they had concluded the procedure, describing it as successful. Also, his spokesman, Laolu Akande, later assured anxious citizens that “the VP was alert and well.” A statement by Dr Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi, Medical Director, Duchess International Hospital, had read: “The Vice President was admitted to the Duchess International Hospital GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, on account of a fracture of his right femur (thigh bone), possibly related to a longstanding injury associated with a game of squash.” “He had a surgical operation performed by a team of specialist doctors, including Dr. Wallace Ogufere (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Om Lahoti (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Babajide Lawson (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Ken Adegoke (Consultant in Anaesthesia & Critical Care); Dr. Oladimeji Agbabiaka (Consultant Anaesthetist); and Dr Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi (Consultant Physician & Medical Director).
   “The operation was successful, and he is expected to be discharged within the next few days,” the doctor had said.