 The Africa Narrative (TAN) (www.TheAfricaNarrative.org), a non-profit focused on supporting African creatives, today launches the AfroCreatives WikiProject (https://bit.ly/3z035bh), funded by the Wikimedia Foundation (www.wikimediafoundation.org), the non-profit that supports Wikipedia and other free knowledge projects. The AfroCreatives WikiProject is the first of a series of initiatives and programs that TAN will be announcing over the coming months.  Initially established as a research-driven project aimed at generating greater public knowledge of Africa, The Africa Narrative is relaunching as a non-profit with a mission squarely aimed at strengthening capacity in the African creative economy and amplifying global visibility of African cultural soft power.  Registered as a tax-exempt non-profit in the United States and in South Africa, TAN will be based in Johannesburg and led and staffed entirely by Africans on the continent.  “Not only are creatives increasingly on the front lines of shaping the continent’s image on the global stage, they are also drivers of the increasingly vital African creative sector, one that nonetheless is vastly underfunded, underdeveloped, and capturing less than 3% of the global creative economy” said Michelle van Gilder, TAN’s founder and interim executive director.” In response, TAN has developed a dozen initiatives, including the AfroCreatives WikiProject, to support African creatives and amplify the global visibility of Africa’s extraordinary creative genius.”  The AfroCreatives Wikiproject was developed to support and mobilize people from the African cultural and creative industries, as well as African cultural enthusiasts, to contribute and enhance knowledge on Wikipedia about Africa’s creative economy. Its inaugural effort, launching this month, is centered on the film industries of Egypt, Nigeria, Rwanda, and Senegal.  On July 16, TAN will launch a three-week campaign, AfroCreatives WikiProject +film (https://bit.ly/3Of3wmt), encouraging new and established Wikipedia contributors, including film industry creatives, professionals and film enthusiasts in each of these countries, to add film-related content to Wikipedia.  On the same day, TAN will host four online training sessions in French, Arabic, and English for those new to editing Wikipedia. The training sessions will provide easy and essential editing know-how that will enable anyone to start contributing to Wikipedia.  As one of the most widely visited websites in the world, Wikipedia is an indispensable global resource, yet just 15% of edits made on the site come from the African continent; it is an obvious platform for TAN to devote attention to. “We are incredibly bullish on what will be a long-term commitment from TAN to engage creatives and cultural enthusiasts to make a notable impact on growing African-generated content on Wikipedia and are deeply grateful for the Wikimedia Foundation’s support in helping to spearhead this effort,” van Gilder added.  The Foundation’s support includes a Wikimedian in Residence dedicated to the AfroCreatives WikiProject. Daniel Damoilola Obiokeke has been contributing to English and Simple Wikipedia, Commons and Wikidata for the last six years. He has started over 200 (https://bit.ly/3axoUW5) articles on the English Wikipedia and facilitated several Wikimedia campaigns, contests and edit-a-thons in Nigeria.  “Our partnership with TAN reflects a wider commitment by the Wikimedia Foundation to make Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects a true reflection of the world’s knowledge. With only 1.5% of Wikipedia editors coming from the African continent, this partnership presents a necessary opportunity to not only add missing content about African creatives, but also to increase the number of Africans contributing knowledge on Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects,” said Rudolph Ampofo, Wikimedia Foundation Senior Regional Partnerships Manager.  “The Entertainment and Creative Industry in Africa is huge in terms of revenue and production output and yet, there isn’t much said about it on the world’s biggest encyclopedia. With the Afrocine Project already bridging this gap with its past campaign, this project is important to collaborate and achieve more in ensuring more African creatives get involved with Wikimedia projects and bridge the systemic bias and gap that exist.” said Ayokanmi Oyeyemi, advisory support to the AfroCreatives WikiProject.  For more information on The Africa Narrative visit www.TheAfricaNarrative.org  For more information on the AfroCreatives WikiProject and to register to the AfroCreatives WikiProject + film campaign click here (https://bit.ly/3Of3wmt).  Download the AfroCreatives WikiProject +film social media toolkit by clicking here. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Africa Narrative. Media Contact:
Michelle van Gilder
michelle@theafricanarrative.org About The Africa Narrative (TAN):
The Africa Narrative is a non-profit that develops singular, high-impact initiatives in support of African creatives and the African cultural and creative industries. Through programs and projects centered on research, content creation, awards and fellowships, and large-scale events and campaigns, we aim to strengthen capacity in the continent’s creative economy and amplify the global visibility of African cultural soft power. The Africa Narrative is registered as a tax-exempt non-profit in the United States and South Africa.  About The Wikimedia Foundation:
The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that operates Wikipedia and the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects. Our vision is a world in which every single human can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. We believe that everyone has the potential to contribute something to our shared knowledge, and that everyone should be able to access that knowledge freely. We host Wikipedia and the Wikimedia projects, build software experiences for reading, contributing, and sharing Wikimedia content, support the volunteer communities and partners who make Wikimedia possible, and advocate for policies that enable Wikimedia and free knowledge to thrive.