Kidnap suspect arrested in Kwara
Daredevil gunmen stormed two residential areas in Dutsinma Local Council of Katsina State on Sunday night and abducted four housewives and five other persons. The terrorists stormed the Katsina State Agricultural and Rural Development Agency (KTARDA) and Shema quarters in their numbers about 11:30p.m. amid heavy downpour, ransacked some houses and carted away valuables. Also, they abducted the victims from Shema quarters. According to a source familiar with the incident, the AK-47 wielding terrorists first stormed the house of Usman Abdullahi and abducted his two wives and three other family members. They were said to have proceeded to the home of Abdulaziz Lawal and abducted his two wives and two other family members. Abdullahi and Lawal had managed to escape before the terrorists broke into their homes. Confirming the incident, spokesperson for the state’s police command, SP Gambo Isah, said he could not give details of what happened. Isah added that Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) and some officers were drafted to the scene of incident to engage the terrorists.
SIMILARLY, terrorists, in the early hours of yesterday, attacked a military camp in Sarkin Pawa, the headquarters of Munya Local Council of Niger State. The spokesman for Coalition of Shiroro Association, Salis Sabo, in a statement, explained that the gallant soldiers were on the alert during the attack. He stated that the terrorists came in their hundreds trying to dislodge the military base, when the military engaged them in a gun duel for about two hours until the soldiers reinforced and successfully neutralised them. The Guardian learnt that it took the military less than 30 minutes to arrive Sarkin Pawa from Minna, in response to the call for reinforcement. At the time of filing this report, no casualty had been recorded on the side of the military; but there is a strong indication that some terrorists were gunned down, although the number is yet to be ascertained. MEANWHILE, a member of a three-man inter-state kidnap gang, Boodoo Musa Alhaji, has been arrested by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kwara State command, for alleged kidnapping and murder. The gang had kidnapped an 80-year-old man, Alhaji Abba, in Eruwa, Oyo State, collected ransom and later killed him. Public Relations Officer (PRO) of Kwara NSCDC, Olasunkanmi Ayeni, said the crime was committed in Eruwa, while the suspect was arrested in Banni community, Kaiama Local Council, at the weekend. He described the suspect as an ex-convict, and that he would be transferred to Ibadan headquarters of the command for further investigation and prosecution. 