Last week in Lagos, the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) gathered industry eggheads to discuss regulations regarding the full deployment of the Internet of Things (IoT) in Nigeria. ADEYEMI ADEPETUN, in this report, writes about the planned move. Advancement in computing power and wireless Internet connectivity appears to be fast transforming the globe. It is fast making the world smarter! From America to Europe, Asia to Australia down to Africa, devices are getting connected and becoming smarter.
   
It is noteworthy to say that technological innovation is fast helping the world to realise the potential of machine-to-machine interaction, where computers speak to another device seamlessly. The technology behind this has been the Internet of Things (IoT). Analysts believe IoT will be useful across all sectors, from industry to manufacturing and telecoms to engineering, among others.
  
For Nigeria to be part of this global movement and ensure that the benefits are not eroded, there must be regulations, as seen in countries where IoT is in full deployment.  In his opening remarks, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, said new technologies are critical to developing a digital economy. Pantami said IoT is part of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), which is driven by emerging technologies, including 5G, Cybersecurity, Quantum Computing, Cloud Computing, Augmented Reality, and Artificial Intelligence, among others.
  
The minister said all the technologies are disruptive in nature and thus require adequate regulations. According to him, since 2019, the regulatory approach from the ministry had been developmental and flexible, targeted not to restrain the sector’s growth. As such, he said regulations for IoT, which was the centre of discussion at the forum, would enable the country to prepare adequately well, especially as it moves to the era of 5G.
  
While it was noted at the forum that IoT had started gradually in some cities of Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano, the Minister noted IoT is very important in 4IR and disruptive technologies because it brought to the fore the issue of degasification.
   
He emphasised the need for the type of consultations and brainstorming being hosted for IoT, as the International Data Cooperation (IDC) revealed, “By 2025, there will be about 46.1 billion IoT devices that are going to be interconnected globally…and through this connection, the data to be generated will be up to 79.4 Zettabytes.”  Regulations and readiness
Director of Technical Standards and Network Integrity, NCC, Bako Wakil, said with IoT challenges such as security, interoperability, and safety among others, regulation is required.
   
In terms of readiness of the country, Wakil disclosed that the commission was already type-approving devices. He stressed that there was, however, the need to scale up skills needed to operate the technology, adding that consumers must also be protected against exploitation.
   
Wakil said lots of aviation devices have been type-approved by NCC to ensure no interference.
     
From his perspective, the Head of Spectrum Administration at NCC, Abraham Oshadami, said by nature, that anything that is regulated works better.  Place of Satellite
Dissecting “The IoT Ecosystem: Satellite Perspective,” Levin Born McCall of Regent Square Group, USA, said from the point of view of the satellite IoT service provider, deployment is cheap, quick to deploy, software-focused, adaptable and always evolving.
   
On key priorities of a new framework, Born-McCall said there is a need to build a direct relationship with satellite operators; implement a smaller fee structure; allow satellite and space segment players to exist independently of the legacy operator, that is the MNOs and ISPs.