Download logo The Embassy of France in Ethiopia and to the African Union is delighted to partner with three Ethiopian private schools and three international schools offering French classes in Addis Ababa.  The signature ceremony took place on July, 1 2022 at Alliance Ethio-Française of Addis Ababa. Partnerships, that began in 2019, were renewed with Gibson School Systems, Fountain of Knowledge and German Embassy School. This event also marked a new momentum in Education Cooperation, with the signature of an agreement with three new schools: Flipper International School, Kelem International School (formerly Swedish School) and Prestigious Youth Academy. Based on the will to develop French Language programmes in their schools, the Heads of schools and their pedagogical team discovered opportunities of cultural activities and language certifications in Alliance Ethio-Française, the scientific mediations offered by the French Institute of Ethiopian Studies, inter-school projects with Lycée Guébré Mariam, the role of the French Department of University of Addis Ababa in training future teachers and the resource center of the Association of French Teachers in Ethiopia, located in the library of Alliance Ethio-Française. By the end of the ceremony, the Action and Cultural Cooperation department (SCAC) of the Embassy of France delivered a pedagogical kit for the French language teachers of each school, with “French as a Foreign Language” textbooks, games, technical material to support the development of the French programmes. SCAC was recently granted a special funding by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs dedicated to a two-year project entitled “Strenghening French Language as an Asset for Youth Employability in Ethiopia”. 23 French language teachers from the 6 partnering schools will benefit from continuous trainings in “Teaching French as a Foreign Language” from July 2022 onwards. More than 2100 students from grade 1 to 12 will also enjoy the fruit of this collaboration! Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Embassy of France in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.