An e-commerce company, Boom, has launched an online trading platform targeting the over 1.7 billion unbanked persons in the world, as well as those seeking options to trade online, without having a bank account. 
   
The platform consists of the Boom Marketplace where consumers discover products and services from merchants, Boom Wallet for payments and Boom Messaging for communication.
   
Founder of the platform, Peter Adekeye, during the launch at Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos, said: “According to the World Bank, I.7 billion people have no bank account and are referred to as unbanked. These people are denied the opportunity to trade or showcase their products to the global space, and they are our target at Boom.” Adekeye said the App will be available for download from today, July 4, in three Nigerian languages and other foreign languages. “Boom is where privacy is ensured, secure conversation is guarded and we have a global form of exchange, which is Multicoin. We do not sell or buy anything, we are only a platform to get people who buy and sell to get connected. Speaking on its safety and security, the France-based technologist, said: “All users on Boom comply with Know Your Customer at sign up. This ensures compliance with EU regulations and eliminates spam, scam and online abuse. All communication and transactions on Boom are secured with bank-grade features that harden all correspondence with strong cryptography.
 
On her part, Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), Boom, Gebdy Villarroel, said: “We are happy to be launching Boom in Lagos. Our founder is a Nigerian and it means a lot to him that we are here. This platform allows anyone to buy and sell anywhere in the world without the use of a credit card or a bank account and it’s a new way for people who are tired of paying fees to carry out their transactions.
 
Also speaking, Elvina Ibru, while lauding the platform as a game-changer in the e-commerce platform, said: “One of the benefits is that there will be no bank charges. The fact that there is no need for a bank account is another benefit. In today’s world, there are people without a bank account and they are trading “So, I think it will make life a lot easier, particularly for merchants that sell perishables. Also, it has a social network, which means that what is sold or put on the platform will be seen by millions online.” 