Download logo The below is attributable to Acting Spokesperson Shejal Pulivarti:‎  On July 24, Administrator Samantha Power traveled to Mogadishu, Somalia where she met with President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud to discuss the historic drought that has already resulted in acute food insecurity for more than 7 million Somalis. They spoke about strengthening U.S. – Somalia collaboration to prevent widespread famine and increase resilience to future shocks. The two also discussed U.S. support for President Hassan Sheikh’s ambitious reform agenda, focused on promoting national reconciliation, strengthening Somalia’s federal institutions, and addressing the threat from al Shabab. Administrator Power emphasized the importance of strengthening democratic governance and economic reform efforts as the basis for long-term stability. Administrator Power, UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General James Swan, and the Somali government’s Special Envoy for Drought Response Abdirahman Abdishakur Warsame convened heads of mission and representatives from the European Union, United Kingdom, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia to discuss the urgency of the drought crisis and the need to increase international support to prevent famine and build resilience efforts. Administrator Power highlighted the United States’ recent announcement of $476 million in critical humanitarian and development assistance to the people of Somalia and underscored the ongoing commitment to working alongside the UN and the Somali government at federal and state levels to quickly operationalize and scale-up emergency assistance for the most vulnerable. The Administrator also met with Ambassador Larry André, Acting USAID Mission Director Ted Lawrence, and other U.S. Embassy colleagues. She thanked the U.S. Embassy and USAID Somalia staff for their dedication and commitment to strengthening the U.S.-Somalia relationship. Administrator Power met with Somali private sector and non-governmental organization leaders to learn about local and diaspora efforts to respond to the drought and build resilience. She emphasized the critical role these organizations play in improving people's lives in Somalia and building a sustained economic recovery. Later, the Administrator met with partners providing humanitarian assistance to bolster drought response and famine prevention in Somalia. Administrator Power thanked these partner organizations for their tireless work responding to the food security crisis in Somalia, exacerbated by Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine. The group discussed the unprecedented nature of the crisis, challenges around access in parts of the country and the need to build long term resilience to cope with a changing climate. Administrator Power then participated in a press conference and interview with Somali journalists and reiterated the vital role that local and international journalists play in drawing attention to the devastating food crisis across the Horn of Africa. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).