Bandits kill community leader’s son, abduct three women in Plateau
So far, 48 persons have been confirmed dead following Wednesday’s attack by bandits on a mining site at Ajata-Aboki community in Shiroro Local Council of Niger State. A witness, Sani Yusuf, told newsmen, over the weekend, in Minna, that the bandits attacked the site in broad daylight. Yusuf, who is a co-convener, Concerned Shiroro Youths of Niger State, in a statement, highlighted that, based on thorough and reliable local findings as of Saturday, July 2, the death toll has risen to 48. “This figure was arrived at on Saturday evening after the body of a mobile policeman was discovered by a local in a nearby bush not too far from the scene of the crime,” he explained. According to his breakdown of the casualty figures, 34 soldiers, eight mobile policemen and six civilians were confirmed dead. The activist said it was extremely sad and demoralising to lose such huge number of patriotic citizens and gallant officers at the warfront, stressing: “They paid the ultimate price while trying to defend the sovereignty of Nigeria and lives of unarmed citizens. Speedily, we are being depopulated by marauding terrorists.” The statement, however, assured that as new and more information comes in, the public would be updated. ALSO on Saturday night, armed bandits struck Pyem Chiefdom and killed the son of Baba Yarima Jabil, the leader of Angwan Baraya community, Gindiri District in Mangu Local Council of Plateau State. The Guardian gathered that they shot Jabil and his son, Chamsan, at his residence. While the son reportedly died on the spot, the community leader was rushed to the hospital where he is still responding to treatment. The bandits, according to the family, took away Jabil’s wife and others. The community leader is of the family of Prof. Yerima Jabil and Angel Jabil, both of the University of Jos (UNIJOS). In another development, bandits, last night, stormed Washna Village, Panyam District of the same Mangu Local Council and took away two women, including Malama Hanatu Washna, mother of Danladi Washna of the National Assembly, Abuja. The state’s police command, through the spokesman, DSP Alfred Alabo, told The Guardian that he had not got the details of the incident, as he had sent a signal to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area. “I am still waiting for his response. As soon as I get it, the public will know,” he added. 