Furniture firm, Lifemate Nigeria Limited has introduced new products into the market to make quality and style accessible to customers at an affordable priced rate. Some of the products include multipurpose outdoor furniture, solid wood product, international spring bed, wrought iron product, sofa product and other customised products like multi-layer board. The firm’s Wholesales department manager, Anas Khuwias disclosed this at its first dealers’ conference held at the Mowe factory in Ogun State. Khuwias said through the new products, quality is guaranteed as they are made of good materials, adding that the company is particular about its name/brand in order to expand business for the dealers. According to him, good craftsmanship is the guarantee of its quality products, which at a low cost, gives higher profits and more money to dealers. He also said the company will launch European -style blister door panels in the first half of 2023. “Our products can be made in four colours; black, white, gray and gold. In the first half of next year, we will add a production line specialising in solid grain. According to our sales record, wrought iron products are increasing by about 70 per cent yearly,” he said. Addressing the dealers, the Channels Director, Howard Gao said Lifemate group
has formed a business model integrating research and development, production, procurement, sale and service and providing Nigerians customers with one-stop service. He reiterated that the firm remains unrelenting in producing standard products, improving living conditions of Nigerians, prosperity together, winning the support and trust of the people across all walks of life. The Lifemate wholesale supervisor, Mr. Mark Otobo said the wholesale arm of Lifemate Nigeria, was inaugurated to meet the basic needs of partners thereby reducing the importation cost, the stress of travelling out of the country to get good deals while it can be obtained in the country at affordable rates. He said: “Our heavy discounted price of products cannot be obtained in any other furniture company globally with our quality standard intact always, delivery services are next to none and regional delivery showroom pick up are all embedded in our services. Customers can make purchases across the country and pick up their goods from any of our showrooms close to them without any charges attached.” He noted that the yearly product promo and exhibition are of maximum rewards to all our customers because of the massive discounts, as low as 10 per cent of products, which enable them to make extra profit.