Joint Military Task Force, codenamed Operation Delta Safe (OPDS), yesterday explained its operations in Bayelsa communities in Southern Ijaw Council, saying it was only carrying out it’s mandate of protecting national assets from vandals and oil thieves. The Commander of the military outfit, Real Admiral Aminu Hassan, who gave the explanation to newsmen after taking them on an assessment tour of the illegal refining sites and other items used by operators in Igbomotoru, said they were only after a notorious illegal bunkering kingpin, who has been terrorising the communities. He denied any involvement of his men in the alleged invasion, dehumanisation, rape or maltreatment of citizens in the community, adding that the refining site, which they discovered in the community, was over two kilometres to the towns in question. The JTF Commander said the mandate of the outfit was to protect oil and gas infrastructure and prevent militancy, sea robbery, crude oil theft and other forms of criminality within the area. He described as unfortunate and malicious allegation that Darlong Oil and Gas Company, a pipeline surveillance security company, sponsored the soldiers, saying it was meant to smear the military. He said”In the way we do our things, we believe in showing people the truth and bare facts and that is why we conducted the pressmen to the field and we show them what and what is there, and what the criminals are doing. “They have erected illegal refining camp, the size which have never been seen in Bayelsa before. We have been watching them before now, it’s now they want to start operation we must stop them. “We are here to protect the people, oil and gas facilities, we follow best international best practices, as professionals.” The visit with newsmen to the illegal bunkering camp was led by Lt. Col. John Malgwi, the Commanding Officer 343, Artelary Regiment, who said the men trekked over 15 kilometres before they discovered the site. He said the essence of the operation was to prevent pipeline vandals and illegal bunkerimg, which is having its toll on the national income. 