Download logo After a successful edition in 2021, West Africa Connect (WestAfricaConnect.com) is back with a new event on September 20 and 21, 2022. This time, the focus is placed on promoting mangoes, cassava, and ICT services from West African suppliers to agribusiness buyers from West Africa, Africa, and other continents.  Buyers can connect to over 150 selected fresh and processed mango and cassava suppliers as well as ICT service providers from 16 countries. Throughout the event and thereafter, the platform will offer B2B meetings with partners and access to exhibitors’ digital profiles.  At West Africa Connect, buyers can source from a wide range of regional products and services, benefitting from the tailored support provided by the organizers.  Meet suppliers face-to-face and online Last year, 441 registered participants from 31 countries around the world engaged in lively online exchanges. West Africa Connect 2022 will be held as a hybrid event on the 20th and 21st of September both in Accra, Ghana and online. Buyers can register via: https://bit.ly/3nJ0zzG and find more information at https://bit.ly/3afZ0pB. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of West Africa Connect. Note for editors:
For more information, please contact West Africa Connect via contact@westafricaconnect.com.  About West Africa Connect:
West Africa Connect is implemented as part of the West Africa Competitiveness Programme (WACOMP) (https://bit.ly/3yGo8PL).  The WACOMP is funded by the European Union and aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the West Africa region and enhance the integration of ECOWAS Member States and Mauritania into the regional and international trading system.  The WACOMP is led by the ECOWAS Commission, in collaboration with the UEMOA Commission and implemented with the support of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the International Trade Centre (ITC), which are the implementing agencies of the regional component of the WACOMP programme. Read more about our donors and partners on https://bit.ly/3yo3cMh.