Claims third force status intact The African Democratic Congress (ADC) has taken the Labour Party (LP) to the cleaners over its claims of visibility at polling units. The party also called on Nigerians to reject both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for their failure to put the country on a steady course of development and nationhood, urging the electorate to end their woes by rejecting both parties at the 2023 polls. The National Coordinator, Electoral Matters and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Liaison officer of ADC, Chief Anayo Arinze, who said these, further tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to think out of the box on how best to end the incessant kidnappings and killings across the country. Arinze, who made the clarification at a stakeholders’ retreat of the party, held in Awka, Anambra State, yesterday, on the way forward for ADC and its candidates for the 2023 elections, dismissed insinuations that LP has displaced ADC as the ‘Third Force Movement’ in the polity, capable of upsetting the tight grips of APC and PDP on power. Arinze tasked political watchers to look around the state to see if they could identify offices of LP across the country, particularly in Anambra, enjoining the LP’s leadership and presidential candidate, Peter Obi, to concentrate more on deepening the party’s presence at polling units. According to him, this has become necessary to enable LP get little votes in the 2023 general elections instead of getting deceived by social media influencers, stressing that INEC has no polling units online for vote casting. Emphasising that Obi’s popularity was mainly on social media, the former National Publicity Secretary of ADC urged Obi to work on creating structures for LP and identifying politicians with capacity to deliver him if he hopes to make headway in the forthcoming poll. Arinze said: “I don’t think the LP would make any headway in the election. They have no structure at all levels, including Anambra, where its presidential candidate comes from. They have no offices where they hold meetings, except social media platforms; so how do you expect them to have votes during the election?” The former publisher-turned politician contended that it would be a miracle for LP, which has no structure at the grassroots, to win elections, particularly, in Anambra.