Nollywood actress will add value to my candidacy, says PDP candidate
Lagos State governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor, yesterday, officially announced the Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele, as his running mate for the coming 2023 election. Adediran, who unveiled the Lagos-born actress at a rally in Ikorodu area of the state, said that Akindele would add more value to his candidacy. Besides, he said that he took the decision based on the clear understanding of the task ahead and the need to work with a co-visionary with shared passion for the emancipation of the good. According to the PDP flag bearer, the journey demands focus, resilience, and tenacity, and Akindele is large-hearted with a well-known history of service and advocacy. He also described her as ‘an Ikorodu-born success story’ that has positively transformed the society through several of her projects. MEANWHILE, there appears to be an uneasy calm among members of the Lagos State chapter of the PDP over the choice of Akindele. In his reaction, a former state chairman of the party, Captain Tunji Shelle (rtd), said: “I don’t want to comment on that matter at all. Please leave me out of it.” Another chieftain of the party, Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse, also excused himself when he was called to react. “Please, I am in a meeting. I will call you back,” he said. In like manner, two erstwhile governorship candidates of the PDP, Dr. Ade Dosunmu and Mr. Jimi Agbaje, did not pick their calls. But the immediate past Publicity Secretary of the party, Taofeek Gani, who appealed to members of the party to exercise patience and allow leaders of the party to handle the situation, said: “Those who are angry have the right, but if we fail to manage the situation well, we can as well mismanage it and destroy our chances.” However, a chieftain of the party, who does not want his name in print, said: “All I can tell you is that I have lost interest and trust in Jandor.” Spokesman of Lagos State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), Seye Oladejo, said that the choice of Akindele, who has never lived for any other purpose in Lagos other than her comedies, as running mate to Jandor, has made the next governorship election a walkover for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. According to Oladejo, the choice of Akindele as running mate to Jandor has further exposed the lack of seriousness on the part of Lagos PDP to win the election. In another reaction, a chieftain of the APC, Fouad Oki, expressed displeasure over Akindele’s choice, saying it would weaken the 2023 governorship contest in Lagos.