The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission [FCCPC] has restated its commitment to punish offenders, especially operators that fail to comply with extant rules and regulations in the electricity industry without further delay. It observed that over the years, non-compliance with the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) orders, codes, regulations and standards of performance remains the bane of the industry. The commission urged DISCOS to show more commitment to compliance with NERC regulations. According to the commission, the move to punish offenders has become inevitable given consumers’ growing complaints of estimated billings, poor metering wrong connections and illegal disconnection, among others, that have denied them of enjoying regular power supply. The FCCPC Executive Vice Chairman, Babatunde Irukera, gave the warning yesterday at a one-day electricity consumer complaint resolution platform held in Mararaba, Nasarawa State. The one-day programme, organized by the FCCPC in partnership with MacArthur Foundation, drew stakeholders from Abuja Electricity Distribution Companies [AEDC], Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission [NERC] the Nigeria Electricity Management Services Agency [NEMSA] as well as selected electricity consumers in the area. Irukera said: “This programme provides an opportunity for consumers and AEDC to resolve outstanding and emerging electricity consumer complaints under the supervision of regulators, we advise AEDC to ensure that all complaints brought here are fully resolved.” He observed that though the commission had been working with NERC on some policies and regulations to assuage the challenges and pains being experienced by consumers, one of such measures is the capping of estimated bills. Irukera, who was represented by FCCPC Executive Commissioner, Operations, Adamu Abdullahi, assured participants and customers that all their complaints would be addressed before the end of the event. In his presentation, the AEDC Chief Marketing Officer in the area, Mr. Donald Etim, said: “Our aim here is to listen to our customers attentively in relating to your individual complaints and to let you know such genuine issues would be addressed without delay.’’   He charged the customers to, however, report issues of illegal connection of power,   poor wiring of houses, use of poor conductors among other irregular customer behaviors. A representative of the Association of Fish Sellers in Mararaba, who does not want his name to be mentioned, told The Guardian that the current hike in the prices of frozen fish and chicken in the market could be attributed to lack of electricity to power their cold rooms. Another consumer, Timothy Oyedeji also complained that despite paying for a meter, he discovered that the one given by AEDC staff was fake.