Chairperson, Signal Alliance Technology Holding (SATH), Collins Onuegbu has stated that for businesses and the country to diversify the economy and drive sustainable growth, investors and the media must start focusing on enterprise technology companies and encourage them to take advantage of the opportunities that abound within. As part of activities to mark the day and with some of the company’s stakeholders present, the technology holding company noted it has birthed three subsidiaries, including Cloudsa, an indigenous cloud solution company; Signal Alliance Consulting, an enterprise technology consulting company and SAS Ware, an early stage technology investment company. Speaking at the event to celebrate the company and its subsidiaries, Onuegbu said after 25 years as a limited company and one year transitioning into a holding company, they feel like a start-up again. He added that it’s important that stakeholders focus on technology companies such as SATH and its subsidiaries to stimulate the economy and record growth in the sector. The general managers of the different subsidiaries who were in attendance acknowledged the importance of technology in every aspect of the economy and how they have positioned their subsidiaries for the future that technology holds. General Manager, Cloudsa, a subsidiary, of Busola Komolafe, revealed services they offer that SMEs can leverage on and the importance of migrating to the cloud. She said that Cloudss as an indigenous cloud-go company is prepared to assist organisations transition from on-premise to cloud services. Cloudsa, she said, has achieved Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider, CSP-Tier 1; Microsoft License Solutions Partner; Microsoft Consulting Services; Microsoft FastTrack Partner and Microsoft Authorised Education Partner. General Manager, SAS Ware, Chucks Nwafor, pointed out their growing portfolio of tech start-ups and early-stage companies in health and fintech, how they support and keep the tech start-ups thriving. “The speciality of SASWare VC is not only in discovering new tech solutions but also helping to support these ideas through funding, expert support and consulting to nurture those ideas to fruition,” he said. Kenneth Ufomba reiterated that his subsidiary; Signal Alliance Consulting which is focused on digital transformation, consulting, technology service delivery and adoption, is equipped to provide value and technology support to different sectors of the economy, especially enterprise solutions that will arise in the future.