The Chairman of Senate Committee on Defense and Deputy Chairman of Senate Committee on Anti Corruption senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko Sarkin Yamman Sokoto has donated Four Trucks of Assorted food items and financial assistance to the eleven communities ravaged by the banditry attack in Goronyo local government area of Sokoto state. Presenting the relief materials, senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko sympathised with the people of Goronyo local government over the incident. He said the federal government is making a frantic effort toward tackling the insecurity menace facing the country. Wamakko expressed sadness about the number of displayed persons that were scattered as a result of banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling in the area. He explained further that, “the insecurity bedeviling the country will soon be history as the federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari’s watch is working assiduously to curb the current insecurity situation in the country.” Wamakko on behalf of his colleagues at the National Assembly announced the donation of four trucks of Assorted grains that contained one thousand Five Hundred bags of Rice, Millet, and Garri. He also announced the donation of an undisclosed amount of money to ease the hardship faced by the IDPs. Wamakko also announced the donation of five Motorcycles for the members of the Vigilante Group in Goronyo local government for surveillance and routing operations in the area. He pledged to renovate their Jumu’at Mosque and provide boreholes for potable water in the area. Speaking, APC chairman in Goronyo local government Alh. Kabiru Sarkin Fulani Goronyo thanked the senator for the visit and assured him of their continued support. The chairman while thanking the senator for the gesture pledged to ensure justice and fairness during the distribution of the items presented. Prior to this time, Senator  Wamakko visited IDPs camp on the same mission. He was accompanied on the visit by the APC chairman sokoto state Hon Isah Sadiq Achida, Member State House of Assembly Faruk Ahmad Rimawa, zonal Secretary North West Barrister Bello Muhammad Goronyo among others. The senator was warmly received during the visit by the APC leadership, elders and other party stalwarts. 