 Final countdown begins until first-ever 32-team FIFA Women’s World Cup kicks off; Unity Pitch and Unity Lights to bring communities together in Australia and New Zealand; On-site media opportunities and editorial content available from 20 July 2022.  The FIFA Women’s World Cup Australia & New Zealand 2023 is just one year away. To mark this special occasion, FIFA will host several community events and media opportunities in the lead up to – and during – 20 July, to not only celebrate women’s football, but begin the countdown to the world’s largest women’s sporting event, to kick off in just 12 months’ time. Summary of events for media – for planning purposes To coincide with the feast of women’s football taking place globally this month, several events, activations and media opportunities will be rolled out across the nine Host Cities in Australia and New Zealand on 20 July, to celebrate this milestone. Unity Pitch unveiling in Sydney / Gadigal (from 07:00 AEST) After the day kicks off in Hamilton / Kirikiriroa, with a dawn lighting ceremony, players, communities and leading administrators from football, government and beyond, will unite for the unveiling of a Unity Pitch – a vibrant, new pitch that aims to provide opportunities for diverse communities to celebrate football and encourage more women and girls to play the game, drawing inspiration from the FIFA Women’s World Cup 2023. Available across five days for local communities and clubs to use, the first Unity Pitch will open in Barangaroo (https://bit.ly/3o73baM)  in Sydney / Gadigal. Following the launch, the Unity Pitch will then tour the Host Cities across Australia and New Zealand over the next 12 months, before the FIFA Women’s World Cup 2023 kicks off next year. Please note that media opportunities will be available on-site. Media based in Australia and New Zealand wishing to attend the ‘One Year to Go’ community celebrations, please contact media@fwwc2023.org for further details. International media with questions regarding available content or other enquiries, please contact media@fifa.org. Unity Lights to feature on iconic landmarks across nine Host Cities Following on from the Unity Pitch unveiling, the One Year to Go celebrations will wrap up in style with a spectacular coordinated light show across both host countries, featuring landmark monuments and buildings across the nine Host Cities bathed in Tournament colours, including the Sky Tower in Auckland/Tāmaki Makaurau and the iconic Sydney Harbour Bridge. Media are advised that a range of content and assets will be available for editorial purposes from 20 July. These include: Other media opportunities Media are advised that virtual interview opportunities will be available with FIFA Legends from 18 to 20 July. Media interested in attending these virtual discussions, please contact media@fifa.org for more details. Further ticketing details and pricing will be announced shortly. Register your interest and receive the latest information, please click here. (https://fifa.fans/3AUrZug) For the latest news on the tournament, visit FIFA.com/beyondgreatness (https://fifa.fans/3ASGC16) or use the hashtag #FIFAWWC and #BeyondGreatness. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of FIFA. Contact for African media: AfricanMedia@fifa.org