Hugh Jackman’s character Wolverine has been replaced by Chris Evans in AI-generated art created with the DALLE program. Although Chris Evans would play Wolverine, Hugh Jackman’s portrayal of the character will always be associated with the character. In his many years of performance, Evans has built a wide resume, but Marvel has long been associated with him. Since he also portrayed Johnny Storm in the Fantastic Four series before the MCU was created, he is probably most recognized for playing Captain America in the MCU. He played the character for the first time in 2011 and has since appeared in 11 Marvel Studios films, which included post-credit scenes. Evans’ tenure as Captain America finally came to an end in the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame, when he gave Falcon Sam Wilson the iconic shield of Anthony Mackie. Jackman also spent more than ten years portraying a Marvel character. The actor made his screen debut as Wolverine in X-Men (2000) and went on to star in a number of sequels, some of which were specifically devoted to his character. Sir Patrick Stewart’s cameo in Doctor Strange 2 should have made him the only record-holder, but Jackman’s final portrayal of Wolverine in 2017’s Logan was what allowed him to break the previous record for “longest career as a live-action Marvel superhero.” But as the X-Men get closer to their MCU debut, people are starting to speculate about who might replace Jackman. Evans has already played two different Marvel characters, but Avengers: Endgame filmmakers Joe and Anthony Russo’s declaration that they would like to see Evans take on the role of Wolverine in the MCU has fans interested in the possibility. With Wolverine’s strong energy and Captain America’s relatively controlled demeanor, the characters appear to be completely different at first glance. They do share some traits, though, such as the need to defend others around them. Although it would be intriguing to see what Evans might make of the X-Men character, it is doubtful that audiences would be able to tolerate seeing him return to the franchise in a role other than Steve Rogers. Karl Urban of The Boys was among the performers that have already been fan-cast in the part. Marvel is also said to have spoken with Taron Egerton about portraying Wolverine, although nothing is definite as of yet. Fans of the MCU will be hopeful that huge X-Men news, along with a potential revelation of Jackman’s replacement, will be revealed at this week’s San Diego Comic-Con. 