The Katsina Command of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it treated 216 civil and criminal cases between January and June. Spokesperson of the command, DSC Muhammed Tukur-Abdara, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Katsina. He said that his command, during the period, also recovered over N28.5 million relating to indebtedness and handed over the money to various complainants across the state. Tukur-Abdara explained that out of the 216 cases treated, 94 were criminal cases, while 122 were civil matters of different nature. He added that the civil cases included: indebtedness, land-related matters, domestic disputes, marital conflicts, tenancy matters and breaches of agreements, among others. “From the above-mentioned civil cases, 85 had been resolved, while the rest are at various stages of mediation processes. “Out of the criminal cases treated, 36 were related to theft/trespasses, while we have handled thuggery cases in which the command arrested 17 suspects on different accounts. “On banditry-related matters, the command handled nine cases related to the arrest of bandits and their informants. “Moreover, about three drug dealers were apprehended and large quantities of illicit drugs were recovered. “The command also arrested three suspected cattle rustlers, four rapists were also apprehended during the period under review. “The command has treated nine cases related to fraud and criminal breach of trust of various categories,” he said. Tukur-Abdara said that as part of their core mandate, which is stopping frequent and incessant vandalism of public goods and utilities, the command had arrested nine vandals on different occasions. The command’s spokesperson added that the majority of the vandal cases were power transmission lines and transformer vandals. “This is in addition to the numerous attempts that were thwarted by our anti-vandal squad while on their routine patrols. “Investigations have been concluded in most of these cases and are at various stages of prosecution in various courts across the state. “On civil cases, the command continues to utilise its Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism to settle civil cases as a way of lessening the burden on the judiciary and to fast track resolution of disputes and conflicts in the state,” he said. Tukur-Abdara quoted the Commandant, Muhammad Sanusi-Bello, as urging the general public to provide security agencies with credible and timely information that could assist them in carrying out their activities efficiently and effectively. 