The Presidency has urged the media to increase its support for the fight against the exploitation of the internet and social media for terrorist purposes to address security challenges in the country. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s spokesman made the call in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. ”To help the nation against the ongoing situation, the media must increase their support for the fight against the exploitation of the internet and social media for terrorist purposes,” he said. Shehu said the call had become imperative in view of the fact that terrorist groups had resulted in to use propaganda to create more tension in the country. According to him, terrorist activity using propaganda and the use of violence to force governments to accept or submit to political demands is not new all over the world. He, however, said: ”The country’s security and defense forces are not clueless or helpless. They have their plans and ways of doing things that they will not display in the media. ”The dilemmas in dealing with the specific case of train terrorists are manifold: punitive action like the popular call for carpet bombing of the known locations may assuage the desire of an angry public for revenge, but what about the hostages? They have committed no offense. All they did was board a train. ”It suffices to say that the security forces are not relenting. They are acutely aware of their duties, responsibilities, and what the nation expects of them. Whenever they embark upon those actions, they expect that the public should provide them with the needed support.” According to him, terrorism is a global scourge that must be fought by all actors- the military, the civilian population, and the communication service providers. He also said that this remains the only way safe havens for terrorists are eliminated in every part of the world. ”The Presidency, in the meantime wishes to reassure the public that the President has done all, and even more than what is expected of him as Commander-in-Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military and expects nothing short of good results in the immediate,” he added. 