Members of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) 32nd Regular Combatant Course, last weekend, played a special golf kitty at TY Buratai Golf and Country Club in commemoration of its 40th-anniversary celebration, reports the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). The special golf kitty is part of the series of events organised by the NDA Alumni Association to celebrate their 40th anniversary Ruby since the beginning of their military career on July 5, 1982. The association’s outgoing president, Major General Iliya Abbah (Rtd), said the members had already spent 40 years as military officers, from cadet training to service and then to retirement, adding that the anniversary celebration was a forum for them to come together and reminisce about their past. He added that it is a celebration of all the members of the course, including those who were not lucky enough to have been commissioned as officers, but reported to the academy and started training with them. “The objective of this meeting is to keep abreast of the situation in the country. “Yes, we are retired personnel, but we still have a lot to give the country in terms of national security needs. We always meet to discuss issues like this and where the nation still requires our services, we will be ready to offer them. “Staying together is a great achievement because it s not easy when you have already left the service,” he said. Abbah said some of the staff left the service more than 10 years ago, some five years and others three years, adding: “So, for you guys to even join like that is an achievement, which means you are still cooperating with each other.” He revealed that the association under his leadership had been able to adequately care for the welfare of the members, including the families of those who lost their lives in battle or from other causes. Also speaking at the event, NDA’s incoming chairman, Rear Admiral Apochi Suleiman (Rtd) said the new executive would build on the foundations the predecessors laid to take the association to greater heights. Suleiman said members of the 32 regular combat courses were ready at all times to contribute their experiences to address national challenges. He said the members were still on the reserve list because they left the service a short time ago. Suleiman said that of the 145 who started cadet training on July 5, 1982, 78 of them were present for the anniversary celebration.