Laments FG’s helplessness over killings by terrorists The presidential candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dumebi Kachikwu, has unveiled a consultant in the oil and gas sector, Ahmed Buhari, as his running mate. Buhari holds a degree in Geology and MSc in Geographic Information Systems and Spatial Analysis. He also has a Professional Diploma in International Trade and Marketing and is currently running an MBA programme in Data Science and Analytics. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony in Abuja, yesterday, Kachikwu decried the security situation in the country, stressing that President Muhammadu Buhari has failed in his constitutional responsibility to protect life and property. Kachikwu described the country as a killing field and flayed Buhari for travelling to Liberia to speak on security while his country was under threat. He said: “Many of us have seen the gory images of eight of our heroic soldiers from the Presidential Guards Brigade killed by terrorists in the Bwari area of Abuja. Bwari is a 30-minute drive from the residence of our President. We are told that they planned to attack the Nigerian Law School. The Kuje Prison that was attacked, a few weeks ago, and terrorists were released, is also a 30- minute drive from Buhari’s residence. “We begin to wonder if there is a connection between his trips and the attacks. Is he running? This question has to be asked because he swore an oath to defend the life and property of Nigerians, but he is now presiding over our funerals. He has run out of excuses for the abysmal failure of his government. So, he just takes off. “Many people have rumoured that this is a carefully orchestrated plan by this government to extend their stay in office by ensuring the country won’t be able to hold elections, while some also say they want to hand over the country to terrorists, similar to what we saw in Afghanistan. But I believe that it is a simple case of a man who can’t give what he doesn’t have.” Noting that terrorists and bandits recruit people daily, he tasked the Federal Government to recruit more security personnel. He said: “In the medium term, one million conscripts should join the army. It takes a minimum of six to nine months to train a civilian into a soldier and another three months for them to specialise in weapons use. We can’t run away from this. If you fail to do this, you might be actively fueling the rumours that you want the terrorists to take over our nation.” Speaking on the 2023 election, Kachikwu said: “It is going to be about capacity and not lies or vote buying. It will be about charting a new course for our people. It will be about redefining our collective charter as Nigerians. It will be about kicking out mediocrity and enthroning meritocracy. It will be about building strong institutions with strong processes that defy corruption, nepotism and tribalism.” On the choice of his running mate, Kachikwu said the registrar at Baze University, Dr. Mani Ibrahim, was earlier penciled for the position. But when it didn’t work out, he settled for Buhari, who shared similar vision with him. According to him, Buhari also believes in one indivisible Nigeria that works for everyone. The Niger State-born Buhari, Kachikwu said, not only shares same goals but also has a unique story that speaks to the resilience of the average Nigerian.