The lead counsel to the detained leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor, has cried out over the continued detention of his domestic staff by the Department of State Services (DSS) since June 6, 2021, when security operatives allegedly invaded his country home in Anambra State. Ejiofor pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, to prevail on the Director General of the DSS to immediately and unconditionally release the domestic staff. At a press conference held in Abuja, yesterday, on the judgment of a Federal High Court, which declared the invasion of his house as “barbaric, uncivilised, illegal and unconstitutional,” Ejiofor demanded immediate compliance with the court verdict to release his detained worker. He alleged that his house at Umunakwa Ifite, Oraifite, Ekwusigo local council of Anambra State was on June 6, 2021, unlawfully invaded by operatives of the Army, DSS, Police and Civil Defence during which his Assistant, Samuel Okoro, was gruesomely murdered. He alleged that to conceal evidence, the body of Okoro was callously burnt in his Toyota Camry car to ashes by the security operatives. He, however, thanked the Federal High Court for the judgment delivered in the suit marked FHC/AWK/CS/56/2021, adding that the court verdict had set the record straight against the denial by the security operatives. The lawyer said he committed no offence other than defending Kanu in the charges brought against him by the Federal Government. Ejiofor accused an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) of being part of the planning and execution of the illegal invasion, challenging the police authorities to investigate the police officer’s telephone calls and messages between June 5 and 7, 2021, with a view to meting out deserved punishment. Justice Hassan Nganjiwa had in the judgment delivered on July 22 ordered the Police, DSS, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps and the Nigerian Army to pay a sum of N107 million as compensation to the lawyer for the unlawful invasion of his house and for the destruction done to his properties during the unlawful invasion.