Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesman in Kwara State, Tunji Morounfoye, has said that some chieftains of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state are planning defection to the party. Morounfoye alleged, yesterday, in Ilorin that some of the unnamed APC chieftains had been paying nocturnal visits to the PDP governorship candidate in the state, Alhaji Shuaib Yaman, pledging their loyalty ahead of the 2023 polls.
  
According to him, under normal circumstances, the development is welcome, as Kwara government appointees have seen the writing on the wall that the regime of AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, which is in its twilight, is suffering its death throes. His words: “We, at the PDP, are, however, constrained to inform such nocturnal visitors that they are certainly welcome to the winning train, in as much as they do not have excess luggage of corruption, which the current incompetent Kwara APC regime has been accused of on numerous occasions by the non governmental organisation, Elites Network for Sustainable Development (ENetSuD), the audit partners of the incumbent administration. “Political calculations in Kwara for 2023 general elections are already done and dusted. Baring any Biblical level miracle (God forbid), the APC regime is gone for good come May 29, 2023. Afflictions shall not rise a second time’ in the affairs of Kwarans.” The PDP also described the allegation as part of “the desperate attempts by the drowning Kwara APC regime” as it watches, helplessly, its followers defect in droves to the PDP in various wards and local councils in Kwara and across the country. “Kwarans will not be deterred in their determination to remove the APC regime in 2023. “We, in the PDP, welcome all genuinely interested groups and individuals who want to help save Kwara from the grip of the incompetent and impunity-infused regime led by AbdulRazaq,” he added. But the Commissioner for Communications, Olabode Towoju, described the claims as spurious and a calculated attempt by the PDP spokesman to “satisfy his paymaster at all costs.” Towoju added: “This is another lie coming from this pathological liar and I think the people of the state, by now, should have known him better. I am sure he will soon apologise again as he did some weeks back when he publicly apologised for misleading the public.”