President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise to Nigerian youths came alive yesterday in Abuja, when the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Gregory Obi, unveiled Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed as his running mate for next year’s election.  Journey Begins
SPEAKING during the unveiling ceremony, which held at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, Obi declared that with Baba-Ahmed as his running mate, the “journey to Nigeria’s rebirth begins today.”
    
The LP presidential contender revealed, “finally, after very long and wide consultations, we in the Labour Party have found an eminently qualified Nigerian, who will be my partner as we embark on our march to a secure, united and productive Nigeria.”
    
Obi apologised for the postponement of the event from Thursday to Friday, even as he declared: “Today, I am proud to say I have been able to meet and secure somebody who is eminently qualified and fits the bill to be the Vice President of Nigeria. “I know people will say you are not there yet, but I can tell you, I know where we are going. This is our right to secure, unite and make Nigeria productive. And you can’t do that without having people who have similar visions, ideas and are prepared for the task. So, I have the honour today to present to you, God willing, Nigeria’s next Vice President in the person of Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed.
    
While describing Senator Baba-Ahmed as “one of Nigeria’s youngest and brightest personalities, who has distinguished himself in various areas of human endeavours,” Obi assured that his running mate brings to the mission, great personal, academic and entrepreneurial strength.
   
He harped on Baba-Ahmed’s “impeccable credentials and added value of rich experience as an ace DMI Ian, businessman, public servant, economic and development expert, and politician; a recognised wealth creator and manager; who fits well into the mould of a transformative and adaptive leader.”  Cannot Say No
IN his brief remarks, the VP nominee said a call to join and rescue Nigeria is one he cannot reject. Further, he explained the various considerations that encouraged him to accept the offer of running mate to LP’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi.
    
His words: “My task here today is simple and it is to accept my nomination, but just before I do that, I should give justifications as follows. “The undeniable and unchallengeable fundamental reason for being on this ticket is to rescue Nigeria. And it goes logically without saying that you can only rescue that which is in trouble and Nigeria is in trouble and I cannot afford not to be part of the movement to rescue Nigeria.
    
“The second reason is that I believe in the greatness of Nigeria. I believe there will be peace and prosperity, and I believe Nigeria people will unite.” Speaking on Obi’s consideration, Baba-Ahmed said Obi’s integrity and achievements in the private sector were part of what also informed his decision to join the ticket.”
   
Noting that “this is a high point in my life and career,” Baba-Ahmed stated: “With all trust in Almighty Allah and my belief in Nigeria and with all humility, I accept the generous nomination to be the vice-presidential candidate of the Labour party for the 2023 general election.  Who Is SYDBA?
SENATOR Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed is a son of Islamic teacher and immigrant from Mauritania, who settled in Zaria, Kaduna State. As one of Baba-Ahmed’s 33 children, the young entrepreneur, who founded Baze University, Abuja, holds a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) and MSc in Economics from the University of Maiduguri in Borno State.
   
In 2003, he left Lagos, where he was working in Nigeria Security Printing and Minting Company and was elected to represent Zaria Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives from All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP).
 
He was elected Senator in 2011. In 2018 he contested the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary in Port Harcourt.