Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) and Transparency International (TI) Nigeria have charged government on transparent spending. In a statement, yesterday, to mark the 2022 Africa Anti-Corruption Day, CISLAC’s Executive Director (ED), Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani), stated that this year’s celebration was a good time to remind the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), anti-graft agencies and law enforcement agencies of their role in free and fair elections. The ED urged anti-corruption bodies to be professional in their actions. He said: “This year’s celebration, which is the sixth edition we are commemorating has the theme: ‘Strategies and mechanisms for transparent management of COVID-19 funds’ and we, at CISLAC, will like to remind government on the need to be transparent on its expenditure. A good example is the lingering fuel scarcity, which has lasted for months. This is, despite the huge sums, set aside for subsidy payments. Citizens struggle to understand how trillions are budgeted for fuel subsidy. “This year’s celebration is a good time to remind INEC, anti-graft and law enforcement agencies of their roles in enabling free and fair elections.. “As the highest Illicit Financial Flow (IFF) offender on the African continent estimated at $18 billion, according to the African Union High Level Panel on IFF, led by Thabo Mbeki, existing laws around money laundering and political party financing in Nigeria should be adhered to so that politicians don’t use ill-gotten wealth to get into power.” Musa added that CISLAC would also leverage the opportunity to remind the current administration that citizens “are keenly watching events around the office of the accountant general of the federation.” The CISCLAS boss went on: “With three different individuals acting in that capacity in less than two months and the numerous allegations against the previous two, citizens demand answers and government should not sweep the matter under the carpet. “There is also the need to investigate the deteriorating security situation bedevilling the country, the latest which is the Kuje prison break. “Recent discoveries of huge sums in the residence of a military contractor needs to be investigated to its logical conclusion. “Funds meant for securing life and property of Nigerians shouldn’t be diverted.”