President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the Nigerian military to confront terrorists and wipe them off the face of the earth. He said this in Kaduna State, yesterday, at the graduation ceremony of 247 students of the Senior Course 44 of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji. Buhari said: “The response of the Armed Forces of Nigeria to the Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, militancy, kidnapping, as well as activities of separatists and armed militias, among others, has been commendable. “We have witnessed recent terrorist attacks bearing the hallmark of national and trans-border insurgents trying to cause havoc in Nigeria, as well as in neighbouring countries. It’ll be part of your duty to confront these terrorists and insurgents and wipe them off the face of the earth and bring peace to our countries.” The President noted that the last 12 years in the history of the country have been the most challenging, particularly, in the area of security. He described ongoing collaboration of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Cameroun, Niger Republic, Benin Republic and Chad to combat Boko Haram in the Lake Chad region as productive, commendable and successful. According to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President said: ‘’The synergy achieved in operating together must have been enhanced by an understanding of the doctrines of the cooperating forces.” He added: “Our government is poised to promote national security and development, as well as to remain committed to promoting a vision of a secure, safe, just, peaceful, prosperous and strong Nigeria. ‘’We shall be employing all elements of our national power in ensuring security, a just society, peaceful coexistence, national unity and sustainable development, while promoting our good standing internationally.” THIS came as six top Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) commanders surrendered to Nigerian troops on Wednesday, July 13, 2022, in the Gwoza local council area of Borno State. Director of Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General Bernard Onyeuko, made the disclosure in Abuja during the bi-weekly press briefing, yesterday. Onyeuko said: “Troops of Operation Hadin Kai have continued to take the battle to Boko Haram terrorists and ISWAP enclaves with more coordinated operations. “The surrendered persons are: Mallam Mala Hassan, Ali Madagali, Musa Bashir, Buba Dahiru, Jafar Hamma and Abbali Polisawa. “Also, about 3,858 Boko Haram terrorists and their families surrendered between July 1 and 14, 2022, comprising 505 males, 1,042 females and 2,311 children.” In a related development, 21 Boko Haram terrorists were killed by air bombardment in the northeast. The insurgents reportedly met their Waterloo on Tuesday, following an attack by two rotary and fixed-wing fighter helicopters of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) at the Lake Chad area in Borno State. A military intelligence source confirmed the NAF raid, adding that insurgents’ hideouts were also destroyed.