An officer of the Nigeria Correctional Service, (NCoS), Kogi state command, has been arrested for his complicity in the disappearance of two riffles and some quantity of ammunition belonging to the command. In a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, (PRO), of the command, Nihi Sesan, the officer, whose name was not mentioned, was arrested during a monthly routine audit of arms and ammunition in the command’s armory. Controller of Corrections in the state, David Igbago who ordered the arrest, said that no stone will be left unturned in unravelling the circumstances surrounding the criminal act and bringing those found guilty to justice. According to the statement,“The Officer was eventually put through administrative mechanism before being handed over to the relevant security agency for further interrogation.” Meanwhile, 39 inmates from the Plateau state NCoS command have completed junior and senior secondary schools under the facility’s adult school in preparation of furthering formal education. Controller General, of the service, Haliru Nababa, noted the importance of giving formal education to inmates towards correction and reformation. Represented by the Plateau state controller of corrections, J. Ibinuhi, Nababa said special recognition was given to inmates that were found to have excelled in their academics as well as in character. Deputy controller of corrections in charge of the Jos maximum custodial center, Francis John, stated that the programme was the first of its kind and encouraged the students not to take the knowledge learnt for granted as “it would be useful to them in general life circumstances and whenever they are out of incarceration.” He appreciate the sponsors of the adult education program and those who have supported the school in and also solicited for more support towards the take-off of a study center of the National Open University of Nigeria, (NOUN), within the facility. The communique signed by the PRO of the command, Longdiem Geoffrey, also indicated that the graduating inmates were presented with certificates and awards of outstanding performance to those that excelled.