Emirates and Air Canada have announced the signing of a strategic partnership agreement that will create more options for customers when travelling on the carriers’ networks. Emirates and Air Canada intend to establish a codeshare relationship later in 2022 to offer enhanced consumer travel choices for Air Canada customers to travel to the United Arab Emirates and to destinations beyond Dubai, and vice versa. Customers will have opportunities to book connecting travel between both airlines’ networks with the ease of a single ticket, seamless connectivity at the carriers’ respective global hubs and baggage transfers to their final destinations. President of Emirates Airline, Sir Tim Clark, described the pact as a significant partnership that would enable customers’ access to more destinations in Canada and the Americas, via the Toronto and U.S. gateways. “It also opens up many new route combinations for travellers across Emirates’ and Air Canada’s extensive networks in the Americas, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. “We are pleased to partner with Air Canada, one of North America’s most established airlines and Canada’s flag carrier and we look forward to jointly progressing in various areas to provide even better customer flight choices and experiences.” President and CEO of Air Canada, Michael Rousseau, added that they were very pleased to form a strategic partnership with Emirates, a highly respected flag carrier of the United Arab Emirates with a hub in the vibrant city of Dubai. “This strategic agreement will create network synergies, and Air Canada customers will have additional, convenient options when travelling between Canada and the United Arab Emirates as well as destinations beyond Dubai. We look forward to introducing Air Canada codeshare service on key Emirates flights, as well as adding the EK code on select Air Canada flights, and welcoming Emirates customers on our services later this year.” To further enhance the customer experience, the carriers will also establish reciprocal frequent flyer benefits and reciprocal lounge access for qualifying customers. Further details of the partnership and specific codeshare routes will be announced when finalised and will be subject to regulatory approvals and final documentation.