Monarch alleges bias in matter Lagos State Government and the House of Assembly have expressed displeasure over the refusal of Onikate of Ikate, Surulere, Lagos, Oba Lateef Adams, to vacate a business office situated at No. 66, Allen Avenue, Ikeja, after a directive to do so by the state government. The family of Theophilus Mabayoje Banjo, the landlord of the property, had approached the Assembly for intervention over the refusal of Oba Adams, owner of ‘Latris Fashion’, to vacate the premises after a court judgment had ordered him to do so. Chairman, House Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions & Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC), Mr. Victor Akande, who led a team of officials on an oversight visit to the property, said the case was brought to the attention of the House and after deliberation between the lawyers representing both parties, there was an agreement that Oba Adams should vacate the building completed by end of June 2022 and commence gradual payment of the outstanding debts on the property. The delegation, which include the Director, Chieftaincy Affairs, Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs, Mr Folami Aina and Co-ordinator of Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers, Mr. Owolabi Arole, described the refusal of the monarch to honour the state’s directive as an abuse of office and blatant disrespect. MEANWHILE, when the delegation put a call through to Oba Adams on the matter, he expressed displeasure over the manner he was being treated by the Assembly members, lamenting that they did not have any regard for his office. He said: “I want us to settle it amicably. We all know that the House of Assembly is not a court. So, I know what I can do. Another thing is that the House Committee chairman was not supposed to talk to me on phone like that because I am an Oba. He is disrespecting me. They are also becoming biased. The House is supporting the landlord. I know what I can do, I know my right.” Narrating their experience, one of the Administrators of the Estate of Theophilus Mabayoje Banjo-landlord to the property, Mrs. Abiola Paul-Ozieh (Nee Banjo), said about four years ago, Oba Lateef Adams had sued the landlord to court to stop further increase in the rent of the property, as he could not pay higher rent than the amount he was paying before. The court passed a judgment that since he had not been paying his rent, he did not have a case because there was no relationship between the landlord and tenant. After that, we approached the court to recover the property from him because he was occupying both the down floor and first floor. “We were in court for almost four years due to COVID-19 and judges were on strike but later, judgment was given that Oba Lateef Adams should vacate our property, giving him four weeks’ quit notice. But when he did not comply, we followed the court process of eviction and were able to inject him on January 10,” she said.