A Credit Rating Agency (CRA), DataPro, has, in its latest report, affirmed Providus Bank Plc’s long-term rating of “A-” with a stable outlook for the year 2021/2022. A statement by the firm explained that the “A-” indicates low risk, which shows very good financial strength, operating performance and business profile when compared to the standard established by DataPro. It stated that Providus Bank Plc, in its opinion, has a strong ability to meet its ongoing obligations. DataPro rating committee approved the rating after an assessment of the company’s financial performance, capital adequacy, asset quality, liquidity, profitability, corporate governance and risk management, as well as risk factors of its current healthy profile in the medium to long-term period. Similarly, Agusto & Co has rated Greenwich Merchant Bank Limited “BBB” with a stable outlook. According to Agusto & Co, the rating reflects Greenwich Merchant Bank’s adequate capitalisation, good liquidity profile, satisfactory asset quality rating, experienced management team and strong shareholder support. It stated that the bank’s capital adequacy ratio computed in line with Basel II and Basel III principles remained elevated at 131.68 per cent, adding that they are considered good for current levels of business risk. Commenting on the rating, the Managing Director, Greenwich Merchant Bank, Bayo Rotimi, said: “The rating validates our business approach which entails leveraging people, technology and processes to sustainably deliver value to our stakeholders despite headwinds in the operating environment.” He said deploying a strong risk management framework and proactive response to its clients remained pivotal to the business. He added that Greenwich Trust Limited – the precursor to Greenwich Merchant Bank, which commenced operations in June 1994 as a pure play Investment Bank, was assigned a BBB- {(NG, Long Term and A3 (NG) Short Term with a stable outlook} rating by Global Credit Rating (GCR), in 2021. 