Michael Lahoud, a Major League Soccer (MLS) commentator, and former Cincinnati and Philadelphia Union midfielder, went lyrical about Scottish-born Nigerian Celtic U-17 midfielder Eseosa Sule at the 2022 Generation Adidas Cup. Eseosa Sule was one of the star performers for the club in the competition that saw his side take on a number of star-studded US U-17 club sides. The 18-year-old Sule recently signed his first professional contract with Scottish football giants, Celtic. Born to Nigerian parents, Sule is a dynamic playmaker, who has a fantastic eye for a pass and scores every type of goal. The contract came immediately after shining at the competition – a tournament for youth players from clubs like Manchester United, Flamengo and a host of MLS teams – in April. Sule, accompanied by his parents while signing his contract, was presented with his first team jersey and would wear the number 79 jersey for Celtic in the 2022/23 season. One of the highest-rated young players from the Scottish side’s youth set-up at the moment, Sule is surely one to keep an eye on. The prodigy was highly crucial to the Celtic U-17 team recording three wins and one defeat at the competition. He helped the club to the last-16 phase of the tournament after finishing the group stage top of Group H. The gifted midfielder is one for the future and is already showing how crucial and decisive he is going to be in no distant time, as he shone for Celtic in the side’s 4-0 thrashing of Charlotte U-17. The wonderkid netted a brace, scoring just four minutes into the clash, and added his second for Celtic’s third of the game on the 43rd minute. He then assisted his teammate, Thomas Hatton, for his side’s fourth goal 16 minutes later. Sule was also instrumental in the team’s second clash of the competition. He converted his spot kick during the shootout over Philadephia Union U-17 after a gruelling 1-1 in normal time to help his club to a 6-5 victory. But his team narrowly lost 3-2 to Columbus Crew U-17. They had gone ahead 2-0 inside 15 minutes, but they allowed the US club come back into the game to snatch the victory. In their 2-1 over Cincinnati U-17, Sule displayed his prodigiousness as his cross was palmed into the direction of his 16-year-old teammate, Daniel Kelly, who finished with ease early in the first half. Kelly turned the parried effort of the midfielder, who set the tone for his side’s tenacious play. The Celtic U-17 got further ahead before half-time through Kyle Ure. Cincinnati’s youngsters pulled one back eight minutes from time but it wasn’t enough to save them from defeat. Lahoud, who could not resist Sule’s performance, credited him for Kelly’s goal. “As soon as the rebound comes, he takes the gift,” he said on MLS commentary. “It’s that man Sule. He holds up the play well and then, keep an eye on Kelly. You want your box-to-box midfielder to get into the box and follow his run.” 