In a bid to grow Netball in Nigeria, the Project 2027 training tour visited Mosogar, Ethiope West council area of Delta State, last week to train 41 Physical Health Education (PHE) teachers and college of education lecturers from across the state. The programme was conducted by seasoned Netball Africa certified coaches. The two-day event, held at the indoor sports hall of Delta State College of Education Mosogar (COEM), saw 41 new netball coaches being trained, including seven COEM lecturers and sport coaches of the Physical and Health Department of the College. COEM Director of Works, Anthony Okakuro, pledged the college’s support towards the success of the programme. Director of Sports, Glory Orugbo was among the seven staff of the college that participated at the training clinic, which was aimed at teaching them basic skills (theory and practical) of netball so they can impart the knowledge gained to their students. Applauding the organisers, Orugbo said the college would be keen to partner with the CSED Initiative in organising future training programmes geared at developing the capacity of grassroots sports teachers. The event was attended by teachers from 17 government secondary schools, two government primary schools, nine private secondary schools, one private primary school as well as two teachers from the office of the Chief Inspector of Education (CIE). CSED Initiative conferred the title of Volunteer CSED Liaison Officer on the organising secretary, Delta State Sports Commission, Oghara, Evelyn Ofoghoro for her contribution in supporting and mobilising attendees for the training. CIE, Ethiope West LGA, Oghajafor Ochuko Patricia, in her message through her representative, Okotie Igho Precious, praised the initiative and COEM’s PHE department for organising the event, promising that her office would monitor the progress in the use of the equipment donated by CSED. Apart from providing the 41 attendees with certificates, 35 of them were provided with free netball starter pack (balls, rims, whistles, netball training bibs and green ceremonial shirts). A total of 62 teachers have been trained out of the 300 the Initiative intends to train in 2022. The primary target of the project is to train and equip 1200 PHE teachers and community youths that will bring netball to the attention of one million students before the end of 2027. 