In line with the Plant Variety Protection Act, the University of Agriculture, Markurdi has signed a licence agreement with Value Seed Company to commercialise its newly released cowpea variety, FUAMPEA 3. The non-exclusive and non-transferable licensing agreement was facilitated by
Syngenta Foundation-Nigeria (SFN) in collaboration with New Market Lab (NLM) to improve farmers’ yield and boost food security. The improved beans variety FUAMPEA 3, was developed by the University of Markurdi and its one of 2022 newly approved and released varieties by the National Variety Release Committee (NVRC), This came barely a year after President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law, the Plant Variety Protection Bill 2021, to create a window for the protection of plant varieties in Nigeria and to provide recognition and proper remuneration for breeders who develop varieties and for improved agricultural productivity in Nigeria. the Country Program Manager of Syngenta Foundation, Gabriel Isaiah during the signing of the agreement in Abuja said in line with its mandate of strengthening food systems, catalysing market development and delivery of innovations, the Foundation is gradually changing the narrative to ensure that any variety developed by scientists get to the hands of smallholders’ farmers. On their role in facilitating the agreement under the Accelerated Varietal Improvement and Seed Delivery of Legumes and Cereals in Africa (AVISA), Isaiah added; “We facilitate and ensure that farmers have access to quality inputs that will improve their productivity and better the life of end-users by ensuring that the improved variety meets their needs.” The Country Manager stated that Syngenta Foundation owns it as a duty to facilitate, stimulate the market, develop a business plan, and provide technical (TA) for seed companies to pick orphan crops like cowpea and sorghum for quality productivity. Of course, this will lead to an increase in adoption and accelerate the demand curve of the mentioned crops. He disclosed that the Foundation is working with New Market Lab to ensure the improved variety is given a legal tooth which would fit into the ECOWAS catalogue. Giving an overview of the licensed seed (FUAMPEA 3), a representative from the University, Dr Iolarmen Teryima described the cowpea variety as brown, with a large seed size having a potential yield of 2.5 per hectare which is resistant to Striga gesnerioides, alectra and tolerant to bacteria blight, cercospira leaf spot among other. Dr Iolarmen said that the qualities of improved cowpea FUAMPEA 3 had made the seed to becomes farmers’ delight. the Director-General of the National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC) Dr Philip Ojo, expressed joy in witnessing the licensing agreement, describing the event as historical. Highlighting the impact on the seed sector development in Nigeria, the Director-General said; ” the licensing is going to help to enrich the market with quality seeds and also help to promote robust research, among others. He congratulated the University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Syngenta Foundation and Value Seed for breaking the jinx. He promised that the Council will support the initiative. 