…Stakeholders insist on equality in energy access amidst transition concerns Nigeria’s total installed capacity of 13,000 Megawatts can only give 632, 400 people a good and healthy life, leaving over 199 million of the population, stakeholders said while calling for urgent action on the energy crisis in the country. This is as stakeholders at the 15th Annual International Conference of the Nigerian Association for Energy Economics (NAEE) and International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE), called for equal access to energy as the global transition from fossil fuel. A Senior Advocate of Nigerian and NAEE President, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe noted that renewable energy remained the primary hope for Nigeria and other African countries. According to her, decisive action is needed to provide access to clean energy for those presently living without it. “Energy access should be just, inclusive, and equitable, with no one left behind,” Omorogbe said. Executive Secretary of PTDF, Dr Bello Aliyu Gusau said capacity building plays a key role in the transition from petroleum to gas and ultimately to renewable energy. Represented at the event by General Manager, Strategic Planning and Documentation (SP&D), PTDF, Jide Adebulehin, he said the agency would work with institutions in Nigeria to domesticate its overseas scholarship programme. Gusau noted that at the event tagged ‘Energy Transition and Climate Change Policy: Pathway for Sustainable Development in Africa’, the agency is developing world-class Centres of Excellence in-country to cater for the training and research needs of Nigerians and ultimately, the African oil and gas industry. “It is our desire that the industry collaborates with us towards the design and delivery of world-class training at these facilities, targeted to meet the needs of ongoing and upcoming projects in the Energy industry. “The PTDF desires to develop strong relationships with the industry in view of ensuring that the benefits of PTDF capacity-building interventions are impeccably achieved through collaborations with stakeholders, sponsorship of research programmes and development of proficiencies in energy economics and other Oil and gas-related areas to drive the process of Technology development, acquisition and transfer in the Oil and Gas Industry,” he said. IAEE President, Prof. Peter Hartley stressed the need for Africa to work towards utilizing hydro resources.