Members of the apex Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, have denied endorsing the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, for the 2023 presidency. According to the group, its recent statement that the APC candidate has some level of admiration worthy of emulation, does not mean the Ohanaeze has endorsed him. In the statement issued, yesterday, in Kaduna and made available to journalists, Secretary General of Ohanaeze, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, said: “What was misinterpreted as an endorsement was a call for change in attitudes of APC South East governors and senators, whose activities de-marketed the zone in APC primaries.” “Ndigbo was ashamed to admit that an APC South East governor, who led APC to their defeats in Edo and Anambra governorship elections, spearheaded the aspiration of a Northeasterner against the Southeasterner in the APC primary, and a former governor and an APC Senator, who is scheming for the position of senate president against the South East’s quest for 2023 presidency, both APC South East leaders should turn a new leaf and emulate Tinubu patriotism and commitment, which had repositioned South West from an impoverished political position in 2011 to the lofty height of admiration in 2022. “Ndigbo will officially declare the candidate, who is entitled to Igbo votes in 2023; we affirm that two of our own, one is a Labour Party’s presidential candidate and the other is People Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate. “ ALSO, coalition of Igbo Youths for Atiku 2023 has reiterated the need for the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as president Nigeria in February 2023. According to the group, Atiku has proven to be a focused, result-oriented leader, who can save the nation from the maladministration of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a statement yesterday, the convener of the coalition, Mr. Chris Nkemdirim, stressed the need for everyone to join hands and ensure the emergence of the former Vice President. He noted that Atiku has the desired leadership qualities and a history of economic reform and political transformation abilities to change the narrative. Nkemdirim added: “Over the years, as a private businessman, Atiku has an in-depth understanding of the economy and its challenges. As a Vice President of Nigeria, he demonstrated willingness to reform and implement a development agenda.” “Also, as head of the economic management team, he was instrumental in the design of a private sector revival strategy and advocated for opening up of the economy for private sector investments in the Information Technology (IT) sector. Today, it is the fastest growing services sector in the Nigerian economy.” Lamenting on state of the nation, the convener said he is confident Atiku would restore Nigeria’s unity through equity, social justice, cooperation, and consensus among the country’s diverse peoples.