For the umpteenth time, it was another season of gnashing of teeth for some residents of Lagos State, who had the misfortune of losing their valuables as well as loved ones to flash flood. Residents, onlookers, watch as one of the occupants of the Sports Utility vehicle (SUV) that was swept away by flood at Ogundele Junction is being rescued, while another occupant clings onto the submerged wreckage. Residents at Ogundele Junction, the scene of the incident<br />  Sometimes these people are stopped in their tracks, and forced to return home with their thrash.”
THERE are several areas in the state where poorly constructed roads (which pay scant attention to the efficient drainage systems), as well as decrepit or sparse infrastructural provision, constitutes a let rather than a hindrance to flooding.
  
For instance, the kind of palliative work done on Ige Street (popularly called Aboru Road by residents) has further worsened the flood situation in the area. This is because flooding has persisted in and around the neighbourhood even after the so-called palliative work was completed. 
  
Before the road was rehabilitated, it was bumpy, and in very bad shape. But the palliative work, which ended abruptly at the Aboru canal has done little to ameliorate the previous condition. The section beyond the bridge over the canal is yet to be worked on.  THE latest round of flash floods to batter the state, which happened on Saturday, July 9, 2022, like the previous ones, ended on a fatal note in the Orile-Agege of Lagos, where the flood swept away moving vehicles with their occupants.  A lot of things that we have done, including the diversion at Super are all meant to manage the flood. But the major problem is that the canal is not deep enough. Even though the contractor is working, the heavy downpours have been disturbing his work,” Suraju said.
  
When his comments were sought on the government’s efforts to address the flood challenge in Agege and other parts of the state, the Special Assistant on Drainage and Canals to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Mr. Joe Igbokwe, said: “We are not talking now; we are just doing our work. We do not want any comments on the pages of newspapers. I won’t say more than that.” ALSO giving an insight into the sprouting up of dumpsites in many locations across the state, indiscriminate dumping of refuse in canals, and the failure of LAWMA to effectively evacuate refuse in some areas as when due, the Chief Executive Officer of LAWMA, Ibrahim Odumboni, said that his agency remains committed to tackling the challenge of indiscriminate waste disposal, and has adopted various approaches, including advocacy, sensitisation, education, as well as appealing to residents to shun acts that are capable of endangering the lives of residents.
 
“Dumping of waste in the canal is wrong and should be avoided because it gives rise to so many environmental hazards, such as flooding, the dilapidation of road networks, disease outbreaks, and a host of others, and anyone caught would face the full weight of the law,” he stated. 