The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Faruk Yahaya, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao, and their counterpart in navy, were in Maiduguri on the day of the Ei-El-Kabir celebration, hosting the wounded, sick soldiers and other troops of Operation Hadin Kai to lunch, as part of the morale-boosting effort in the theatre of operation. Speaking during the event for the Northeast troops at the Maimalari Cantonment, Maiduguri, Army boss, Lt. Gen. Yahaya said, it was his pleasure to felicitate with all officers, soldiers as well as civilian staff of the Nigerian Army and their families. General Yahaya, represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans, Nigerian Army Maj. Gen. Andrew Omozoje said: “Indeed, the nation has been faced with myriads of security challenges, which have distorted the livelihood of all citizens. Nevertheless, the Nigerian Army has continued  to employ effective means to tackle these challenges through professional conduct of its officers and men in the field. “It is worthy to note that the Eid-el-Kabir Festival is a special occasion which reminds us of the significance of loyalty, obedience and sacrifice. It also provides a unique opportunity for us to reflect and pray for the grace of the Almighty Allah to defeat all detractors and bring lasting peace to our fatherland.” The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Isiaka Amao assured of the continuous air support as the troops of Operation Hadin Kai tackles insurgency in the Northeast. The CAS was represented by Chief  of Policy and Plans, Air Vice Marshall, Chalse Ohwo. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the procurement of new platform, which was a game changer in the counter insurgency war and reiterated the Air Force’s continuous support for the ground troops. The Theatre Commander, Maj. Gen. Christopher Musa said: “The Joint Sallah lunch avails the Service Chiefs the opportunity to commemorate and celebrate the spirit of the Eid-el-Kabir with troops of Operation Hadin Kai, especially the Muslim faithful. The occasion also affords the Service Chiefs the opportunity to appreciate the enormous sacrifices by troops in restoring peace and normalcy to the entire Northeast Region.