 This file photo taken on September 19, 2015 shows writer George R.R. Martin, winner of Outstanding Drama Series for “Game of Thrones”, in the press room at the 67th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards at Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, California. AFP / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / Jason MERRITT George R.R. Martin, “Game of Thrones” creator, was forced to skip the premiere of “House of the Dragon” after testing positive for COVID-19. Martin had to cancel his plans to attend HBO’s “House of the Dragon” premiere on Wednesday in Los Angeles. The fantasy novelist is the brains behind the renowned HBO franchise “Game of Thrones” and responsible for co-creating and executive producing the show’s spinoff “House of the Dragon.” At the red carpet screening yesterday, Casey Bloys, chief content officer of HBO and HBO Max, delivered a message from Martin to viewers and his supporters. “I was going to start today by introducing George R.R. Martin and tell you how great it is to have George on the journey with us,” Bloys said to the audience at the premiere. “Unfortunately, George got COVID at Comic-Con, so he’s not here. I think he’s feeling fine, so nothing to worry about.” “I wanted to tell you what a pleasure it is and how lucky we are to have the architect of this world on this journey with us,” Bloys said. “He has been fantastic.” Martins also confirmed his absence through an  “unfortunate announcement” in a tweet titled “Travel Updates.” Travel updates:https://t.co/CcwVBv2AK6 — George RR Martin (@GRRMspeaking) July 28, 2022 Martin claimed that following three positive tests, he was confined in a Los Angeles hotel. He clarified that he just suffered a few minor symptoms. “I’m being well taken care of and I’m taking the drugs, and I should go good,” he went on. “My thanks to any of you worrying about me. I’ll be back as soon as I can.” The prequel “House of the Dragon,” which is based on Martin’s book “Fire & Blood,” chronicles the story of House Targaryen and its demise, and is set 200 years before “Game of Thrones.” Paddy Considine, Matt Smith, Olivia Cooke, Emma D’Arcy, Steve Toussaint, Eve Best, Fabien Frankel, Sonoya Mizuno, and Rhys Ifans are among the cast members of the HBO Max original series, which premieres on August 21.