It was a challenge they never envisaged. Leaders of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), including the insiders in the Presidency, failed to plan for the unexpected outcome that trailed the June 6-8 Special Convention that threw up for Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as winner of the presidential primary.
    
Sources within both the Presidency and the APC headquarters revealed that President Muhammadu Buhari did not envisage that a Muslim from the Southern part of the country should succeed him, especially given that he (President) rejected the Muslim/Muslim presidential ticket at the foundation level of the merger arrangement.  Chickens Home To Roost
NOTHING explains Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s surprise emergence as APc’s presidential contender than the controversies trailing his choice of running mate. Amid doubts about the possibility of repeating a Muslim/Muslim ticket which he had previously suggested in 2014 and 2019, Tinubu indicated that his prospective running mate would come from the Northeast geopolitical zone.
    
That clue sparked serious concerns within the fold of Northwest governors, who made efforts to assure the presidential candidate that with the voting numbers from the Northwest, a Muslim/Muslim joint presidential ticket would not portend any electoral danger.
   
To strengthen that argument, the outgoing Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir El Rufai, supported his preferred APC governorship successor, Senator Uba Sani, to retain the first female deputy governor of the state, Dr. Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe, on the ticket for the 2023 poll.
 
With that bold statement, Governor El Rufai believed that he has buoyed Tinubu’s confidence in a Muslim/Muslim ticket, which he (El Rufai) believes would favour him as a front-runner for the position of presidential running mate from Northwest.
   
Nonetheless, banking on Tinubu’s promise of looking towards the Northeast to pick the APC Vice Presidential candidate, the Planning and Strategy Committee of Tinubu Campaign Organisation (TCO) populated names of Christian electives from Northeast.
  
The committee led by former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), David Babachir Lawal, recommended the following from Northeast: Governor Babagana Zulum, Senator Kashim Shettima, Senator Anthony Manzo, former Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, Kashim Imam, Amina Mohammed, (UN Deputy Secretary-General) and Ambassador Fatima Balla. Those who were shortlisted from Northwest geopolitical zone, included Governor El-Rufai, Senator Atiku Bagudu, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and Hajiya Najatu Mohammed.
   
Both El Rufai and Bagudu had high hopes to be selected, especially having downplayed any deleterious electoral consequences on a possible Muslim/Muslim ticket, which they pushed in the belief that the Christians names being considered from Northeast were of “relative electoral worth.”
   
Not that alone, the Progressives Governors’ Forum had earlier enjoined the presidential candidate to pick his running mate from among them given their contribution to his emergence and to bolster them towards effective electioneering.
   
It was against the backdrop of the governors’ demand that Tinubu was said to have reached out to incumbent Borno State governor, Zulum, who gave a singular condition to be met before he could accept the offer. The Borno State governor said the only way he could accept to be presidential running mate is if his benefactor, Senator Shettima, declined the offer.
   
Zulum’s conditionality was said to have pleased Tinubu, who had secretly desired that his campaign director pairs up with him on the presidential ticket. Elated by Zulum’s stance, Tinubu had told reporters in Abuja that he had the name of his running mate in his pocket book, before traveling out of the country.
    
The former Lagos State governor was also said to have overlooked El Rufai despite spirited lobby that the Kaduna State governor would add much electoral value to the ticket.
    
But, sources said Tinubu was suspicious of the Kaduna State governor, particularly given former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s character assessment of the diminutive, but cerebral former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Yet, it was gathered from close Tinubu confidants that the APC presidential candidate did not forget El Rufai’s tantrums in Lagos against political godfathers.
   
It could be recalled that on Sunday May 5, 2019, at an event organised by Bridge Club, which was packaged to sell the Kaduna State governor’s speculated presidential ambition, advised estranged Tinubu’s supporters like Muiz Banire on how to retire godfathers in the state.
   
“Here in Lagos, you have over six million registered voters; only about a million voted (in 2019 general election); five million did not vote. If I want to run for Governor of Lagos, I will start now. “I will commission a study to know why those five million registered voters did not vote; where do they go on Election Day? Then, I will start visiting them for the next four years. I will try and get just two million of them to come and vote for me; I will defeat any godfather. The key is to go to the people. The card readers and the biometric registers have given us the tools to connect directly with the people. “I assure you if you do that for the next four years, connecting with the people; the tin godfather, you will retire him or her permanently. But it is hard work; it requires three to four years of hard work. So, if you want to run in 2023, you should start now. Many of the godfathers are either on paper or in the mind of people in politics. They are defeatable,” El Rufai declared.
    
This was just as others claimed that El Rufai cleverly masked his support among Osinbajo, Rotimi Amaechi and Fayemi only to belatedly root for Tinubu. “These considerations knocked him off,” said a Tinubu acolyte.
   
The other option from Northwest, Bagudu, was said to have lost out because he “benefitted tremendously from the chairmanship of the Special Convention,’ and as such, did not have any outstanding political IOU to claim.
   
As Tinubu plots to be his own man, what remains to be seen is how those with unmet expectations would exact their own pound of flesh, especially given the disquiet in some APC circles, where people like Babachir Lawal are crying foul at his choice of Shettima. 