The Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has reiterated its determination for the Biafra republic, insisting that the emergence of Mr Peter Obi as the Labour Party Presidential candidate in the coming general elections would not dwarf the struggle. It insisted that the struggle by pro-Biafra groups was not for an Igboman to become president of the country but for self-determination. MASSOB was reacting to a statement credited to a Muslim Scholar, Sheikh Gunmi, that the agitation for Biafra had slowed down since Obi became the presidential candidate, an indication that the groups’ interest was to produce a president of Igbo extraction. But responding to the allegation in a statement by its leader, Uchenna Madu, MASSOB stated that it was hypocritical for Gunmi to make such an assertion, stressing that the struggle was not about the politics of Nigeria. “The statement of Gumi against pro Biafra agitation is deceiving and full of falsehood. MASSOB and other pro Biafra agitators have been in the self determination struggle for Biafra actualization and restoration. We are not clamouring for the occupation of an Igbo man to be Nigeria president. “Our agenda is known, our mission is stated, our position is unshakable and uncompromised and our goal is to actualize an independent state of Biafra through the principles of non violence. “We can never be cowed or intimidated by the chief patron and negotiator of Fulani terrorist movement ravaging the entire Northern region and rest of Nigeria in pursuit of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Islamic agenda of islamising Nigeria.” He disclosed that MASSOB and other pro Biafra organizations have nothing against Mr Peter Obi and his intentions to save Nigeria from further collapse, adding that it believes in the right of existence of other Nigerians. He added: “Peter Obi believes in Nigeria. We believe in Biafra. If Nigerians elect him based on his competency and pedigree as their new president does it concern MASSOB? It’s not our business. “Mr Peter Obi is not the first person to contest a presidential election since September 1999 we started the MASSOB non violence self determination struggle. Why attach him to us now? MASSOB advises Shiekh Gumi to explain his role and other Fulani cabals in the terrorist attack and breaking of Kuje prisons in Abuja.  Don’t use Mr Peter Obi and pro Biafra agitation to divert attentions.” 