Former President Goodluck Jonathan and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday, urged Christians to continue to pray for peace and unity in Nigeria ahead of the 2023 general elections. Speaking during the rededication of the remodelled Methodist Cathedral of Unity in Abuja, Osinbajo noted that with God, the country would achieve victory over those he described as “troublers”. The Vice President, who was represented by Mr. Femi Odumosu, said the remodelled church would aid worship and strengthen brotherhood among faithful. He added: “We have to pray for leaders of the country that God will give us victory over troublers. The forces of evil and hate are more vehement than ever. The battle between light and darkness is more intense than ever. But we will prevail.” Jonathan said the current state of affairs in the nation does not give room for blame game, urging Christians to constantly pray for Nigeria. “We need to connect our faith back to God. I want to encourage everyone of us to pray, because the time to blame is not there. But we need to do the needful. “I want to encourage everyone to pray for this country. We must agree as a nation and as a people that we should continue to work together as one. God will see us through.” On his part, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said the country is in dire need of prayers, especially as it approaches an election year. He added: An auditorium, such as this, offers the right atmosphere for faithful servants of God to congregate and seek the face of God towards the emergence of the right set of leaders that will take us to the Promised Land. “I, therefore, want to encourage you to pray and deliberate on the important issues concerning the promotion of human dignity, human rights, true justice, reconciliation, peace and wholesome development of the Nigerian society.” Mustapha urged people not to neglect their constitutional responsibility of participating in the electoral process. According to him, “every Nigerian should endeavour to obtain his or her Permanent Voter Card and vote wisely during the election, so that good and God-fearing leaders that have the interest of our nation at heart will emerge.”