A multinational financial broker, Hantec Africa Limited, which had expanded its operations and reputation across Hong Kong, Mainland China and Taiwan before being listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2000, has rewarded its customers in various categories of the just-concluded “Live Trading Competition 2022”. Hantec Group has operated in a variety of fields from real estate, to cultural innovation businesses and even to water plantations in Asia. But the company has continued to develop its global presence, with representation in 12 countries. Speaking shortly before the prize presentation held at Sheraton Lagos Hotel, MD/CEO of Hantec Africa Limited, Mr. Mike Fowope, explained that the prize presentation was for the best trader on the Hantec platform in CFDs during the competition. He said that the competition, which started about five weeks ago, had close to 100 traders as participants. “They started trading with $250USD. So, in one week, the best trader was able to increase his capital from $250USD to $1,500USD, which is up to 500% Return on Investment (ROI). 13 customers were finally short-listed and they received various prizes.” Fowope stated that consolation prizes, which were for positions 4th to 13th, were given 3.5 KVA generators. For the 2nd runner up, we gave a Mac notebook; the 1st runner up got a five-day all-expense paid trip to Dubai, while the winner went home with a Camry Lexus edition 2017. “What we do yearly is to give back to our clients in several ways and this is one of the ways of doing that. It is the same as with banks that used to be unpopular now giving bonuses, telecom companies giving out bonuses, manufacturing companies giving out bonuses,” Fowope said. He added that the ‘Trust Through Transparency: Hantec Markets’ goal is to provide an unrivalled trading experience that demonstrates fairness and transparency in every aspect of its delivery to maintain a stable and secure environment for its customers to learn, develop and trade. The car winner of “Hantec Live Trading Competition 2022”, Adeyemi Olaogun who spoke on behalf of the co-winners, thanked the company for the great initiative.