Today we have the rare privilege of sitting at the feet of Comrade Jonathan Ihonde, to salute him on his 80th birthday and to learn from his revolutionary wisdom. This is the third edition of what we call Learning from the Wise – a deliberate platform for forging a just and sustainable future through intergenerational dialogue with elders and knowledge holders. We have so far had sessions with the 90 years old labour and environmental justice activist, Comrade Che Ibegura at Erema in Rivers State, and at Ekpetiama with King Bubaraye Dakolo, writer, environmental and human rights activist, who is the current chair of Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Council.  Comrade Ihonde is a keen and an ardent student of life, a living encyclopaedia of Nigeria, its peoples, foibles and potentials. He is a bridge builder and his life is a master class in the construction of solidarity and movement building. His creativity remains highly inspirational. With the world gripped in a deep polycrisis, we believe that solutions to the complexities can be forged by listening to multidimensional thinkers such as Comrade Ihonde. The keys to this learning include his acute sense of history and knowledge of the complex terrain that makes up Nigeria. His spirit of sacrifice and readiness to be immersed in the struggles without seeking accolades or public acclaim should speak volumes to young activists learning the ropes in an increasingly egocentric and individualistic society with severely deteriorated ethics and morality. As a labour activist and unionist, Comrade Ihonde models the pathways needed in a world hurtling to the edge of (a) socio-ecological precipice. Wisdom from the Wise demands a new awakening and a shift from the celebration of dispossession, accumulation and destructive relationships with the Planet.
 
We remind ourselves that our relationship with each other defines our relationship with Nature. The health of the Planet is a major determinant of our overall wellbeing. Solidarity and cooperation societies that respect the rights of Nature to maintain her cycles and nourish humans and other beings with her gifts. Destructive and exploitative relationships between humans inevitably promote extractivist, colonial and capitalistic modes that are yielding the polycrisis of climate change, extreme inequalities, pandemics and xenophobic nationalism, among others.
It is a privilege to sit, listen and learn from Comrade Ihonde.
Talking points by Bassey at the session of Learning from the Wise with Comrade Jonathan Ihonde (Honouring Comrade Ihonde at 80) in Benin City, Nigeria.