Up until the May 29 and 30, 2022 Special Convention of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during which the party elected its presidential candidate, it was as if the party had only two options: to stand strong together or fall apart into splinter interest groups.  Beautiful Bride
FOLLLOWING his overt disgust at the ignominious way he was treated after screening, Wike recoiled to his Port Harcourt base and easily became a beautiful bride sought after by many suitors from other political families.
    
 Although Ebonyi State governor, David Nweze Umahi, who contested unsuccessfully for the APC presidential ticket, was the first to visit Wike after the loss of PDP’s VP slot, it was the visits by Peter Obi and Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, presidential candidates of LP and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) respectively, that exposed Wike as a bargain store.  “The PDP should be bold to declare its stand on zoning of the presidency to the southeast and if it cannot, should tell us why we are not capable of holding such a position but will come for our votes during elections,” he had said. This was the point of departure between the two men. Wike was angered by Umahi’s assertions. He had insisted that he felt offended by Umahi’s attempt to justify his decision on the purported injustice meted on the southeast by the PDP. He had described Umahi as a liar and accused him of being unfair to the PDP, which gave him the party’s governorship ticket in 2015 against all odds and repeated the same feat in 2019. He stated that the lure to become president in 2023 was why Umahi left PDP and not the injustices assertion.
   
Wike demanded that Umahi retracts the statement that PDP had been unfair to the southeast region, stressing that under PDP, the region produced senate presidents, National Vice Chairman of the party and Secretary to the federal government.
     
He had insisted that it was erroneous for Umahi to accuse PDP of injustice, when he had unilaterally imposed his younger brother as south east zonal Vice Chairman of the PDP, adding that, “In life, power is sweet, but conscience is important. It is most offensive and insulting for a man to lie against his party because of power.”
  
A war of words had broken out as Umahi fired back, asking Wike to mind his responsibilities. He went as far as accusing the Rivers State governor of behaving as if PDP was his personal property, adding that he (Wike) spoke like an “emperor”. The disagreement between the two men was imported into their southern governors meeting. Umahi stopped attending the meetings of the group including the ones held in Enugu and Lagos.  Umahi on the other hand, had dismissed Wike’s statement, describing him as “a lawyer that does not know law.” “I am calling him to a debate; he wants to be president, I want to be president, let us do a debate so that the world will see how intellectual property will be deployed”, he noted. Unfortunately, both men had gone into the presidential primaries of their various political parties and failed to clinch the tickets. They had left the exercises complaining and accused the delegates of betrayal. Umahi, who secured 38 votes had accused not only APC delegates of Igbo extraction of betrayal, he had further expressed disappointment with the leadership of the apex Igbo socio- cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo over its alleged failure to galvanise support for his aspiration. Wike on the other hand has continued to nurse the injury of his defeat at the primary election and has blamed the party leadership for its “compromised stance” in ensuring that he lost the election. But while Umahi had returned to declare support for the winner of the presidential primary in the APC, the PDP are still battling to convince Wike on why he should support the aspiration of the presidential candidate of the party. Now, what could have informed the meeting with Umahi who originally dumped the PDP for APC to achieve the presidency? Was it to mend fences so as to stall the recovery of the mandate of the PDP, which Umahi ran into the APC with? Was the meeting aimed at repairing their fractional relationship and paving the way for Umahi’s return to the PDP or on the other hand, for Wike to join APC? Was it to consider who to support between PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and the APC flag bearer, Bola Tinubu in the 2023 elections? Unlike Wike who has remained a strong voice in the south-south as well as in the PDP, Umahi   can no longer reckon as one for the southeast. He lost his place the moment he left the PDP for the APC and leading the zone’s governor’s forum. A source however stated that both men could still pull the strings that could benefit their parties in the elections, adding that the way the presidential primaries had gone, there was the need for forces to combine to achieve a stronger bargaining power for their people in the coming dispensation. 