The new president of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Mr Johnbull Amayaevbo, has announced plans to initiate strategic actions aimed at improving the standard of professional estate surveying practice across Nigeria. According to a statement issued Amayaevbo yesterday, his tenure will be anchored on four strategic agendas, which will bring significant change to the national outlook of the professional body and set the standard for practitioners in the industry. “For this administration, our strategic direction will focus on rebranding, research and development, capacity building and improving the welfare of our members. More than ever, we are committed to uplifting NIESV to greater heights,” he said. Amayaevbo brings 30 years of experience as an estate surveyor and valuer to the role of NIESV President. His specialism in asset valuation includes plants and equipment, Right of Way acquisition, facility management, real estate brokerage (residential, commercial, industrial and logistics spaces) and more. In his new role as President, Amayaevbo called for support, not just from NIESV members, but also from stakeholders in the public and private sectors and government agencies at all levels as partners with the goal of improving industry standards. He stressed, “We are seeking the support of strategic national bodies concerned with issues relating to policy development, such as the National Institute of Policies and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) towards effecting positive changes within the Estate Surveying and Land Economy sector in Nigeria” The official inauguration ceremony of Amayaevbo as the 25th President, along with members of the Council of NIESV will be held on Friday, July 29 in Abuja. NIESV was founded in 1969 by a group of qualified General Practice Chartered Surveyors who were trained mainly in the United Kingdom. The Institution was granted government recognition by the enactment of the Estate Surveyors and Valuers (Registration Act) Decree No. 24 of 1975, now CAP E13 LFN 2007.