A wellness expert, whose outfit, Fiefie Spa, caters for the well-being of busy executives, Catherine Anifowose, has emphasised the importance of spa as a performance enhancer and a key to golfers’ fitness. Anifowose, who partnered with Ibadan Golf Club (IGC) during its recently held Captain Inaugural Tournament, said during a sensitisation session organised on the first and arrival day of the event, that as beautiful as golf is, it is also a strenuous game that affects the whole part of the body. The esthetician, who described golf as a beautiful game, noted, “The words spa and wellness tend to be interchangeable and their use varies from country to country. Spa refers to the wide range of facilities that can be enjoyed by individuals looking for a relaxing, stress-relieving, invigorating or feel-good experience. “And contrary to popular belief, golf is physically demanding. An effective golf swing requires strength, stability, explosive power, flexibility and athletic ability to perform a movement that produces some of the fastest club head and ball speeds, so taking a spa for golfers is often encouraged. “As we all know, golf is a beautiful game, but as beautiful as it is, it is a strenuous game as well is a game that affects whole parts of the body and as we know the body is supposed to be rejuvenated and relaxed. But when the body is not in that state, you can’t give the best for your game.” She explained that Fiefie Spa gives relaxation to the body after each game, adding, “we set your feet, we set your shoulder and feat your arm because after each game, there are so many injuries incurred and most of these players don’t know and that was why we organised a sensitisation session on the arrival day, where we let them understand that their body might be in danger, even though they’re enjoying their game.” “So, inculcating the spar into golfing is a very important thing,” said Anifowose. On the frequency of golfers’ engagement in Spa, the expert described it as a day-to-day activity, saying: “Spa is life, it is like water that someone cannot keep away from. That is why we are trying to create that awareness among golfers, that it should be a routine with their golfing activities.” 