…say Monguno, as their kinsman, has failed to stop insecurity …seek immediate replacement with competent Nigerian …insist security situation worse than Afghanistan …appeal to Buhari to redeem image before May 29 Kinsmen of the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Mohammed Babagana Monguno (rtd), have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to, as a matter of urgent national priority, sack the retired senior officer, for failing to effectively coordinate the intelligence agencies to provide support in curbing the worsening insecurity in the country. The elders, operating under the aegis of the North East Elders for Peace and Development (NEEPD), said given the escalating security situation across the country, posterity will not be fair to them, if they failed to speak up loudly, based on sentiments. They maintained that, in times of emergency such as Nigeria is presently, men and women of good conscience must jettison tribal sentiments and other primordial considerations, while putting on the garb of patriotism, with a view to rescuing the country from sliding into a failed state. In a statement signed by their National Coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni, and Dr Hassan Ibrahim Monguno Borno State coordinator the elders expressed serious worries that the Nigerian State may, inadvertently,  be sharing sovereignty with terrorists, whose daring tendencies are now felt in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to the NEEPD, last Sunday’s attack on troops of the Guards Brigade on patrol operation along the Kubwa – Bwari expressway, just a few weeks after the Kuje prison attack, signposts the failure of the NSA to prosecute his office diligently, and competently over the years. Consequently, the elders appealed to Buhari to drop whatever attachments he has for his NSA, and immediately replace him with a more competent and result-oriented person, as the situation in the country today, requires an emergency surgical operation if we must reclaim our dignity as a sovereign entity. With due respect to our dear President, we make bold to say that the insecurity ravaging the country today, can be compared to what is happening in Afghanistan and other war-torn nations of the world battling terrorism and insurgency. “Mr President, for the sake of posterity and the future of our children, sack the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Mohammed Babagana Monguno (retd) now”, the elders said in the statement. While recalling that the nation has been battling an insurgency in the North East, as well as banditry and kidnapping in the North West for a long time now, the elders argued that Monguno has shown signs of weariness, having not delivered the kind of actionable intelligence in the last seven years that he has served as the country’s number one intelligence man. The statement reads: “We will like to start by reminding the public that, North East elders, we are kinsmen of the NSA, Major General Mohammed Babagana Monguno (retd), and that our love for him is reflected in the support and encouragement we showed him over the years. “We are, however, constrained to seek his sack now, considering the worsening state of insecurity in Nigeria, occasioned by terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and the like. “In times of national emergency, groups, institutions, and people of goodwill must set aside primordial sentiments, and stand on the side of patriotism, truth, justice and fairness. “We dare to say that the insecurity, as witnessed in Nigeria presently, puts the ‘giant of Africa’s at par with war-torn nations like Afghanistan, Somalia, South Sudan etc. “The truth of the matter is, that Nigeria, with all sense of duty and responsibility, currently shares sovereignty with Boko Haram, and ISWAP terrorists, who operate with audacious impunity, and disdain for human lives. “We are conscious of the fact that President Buhari loves the country so much, that he will wish to leave a lasting legacy behind, that posterity may judge him right, when he is no more. “It is on that basis, therefore, that we appeal to Mr President to, without further delay, relieve NSA Monguno of his duties and office, to pave the way for the appointment of a New Security Adviser, who will bring in fresh perspectives and ideas on how to tackle insecurity in the nation. “It is our collective hope, that Mr President stands a chance of redeeming his image and that of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), before May 29, 2023, when he is expected to hand over to a new leader, having exhausted his statutory two terms of four years each”.