A group in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos For Greater Tomorrow, has given a-72 hour ultimatum to the APC and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to address the grievances of its members or it decamps to the Labour Party (LP). Chairman of the group, a former parallel state chairman of the party, Sunday Ajayi, gave the ultimatum in a statement, after a meeting with leaders of the group from the state’s 20 local councils in Agege. Earlier, the group had a meeting with a delegation of the national leadership of LP, which included the party’s deputy national vice chairman, Alhaji Bashiru Apanpa, the party’s governorship aspirant for the 2023 election in the state, Gbadebo Rhodes and the party’s National Legal Adviser, Oyelekan Akingbade. Though the group was yet to accede to the request of the LP to join the party, it, however, assured that it would decamp the moment the 72 hours ultimatum elapsed. Ajayi, flanked by his deputy, Segun, during talks with the Labour Party, did not give details of their demands, he, however, complained about the non-inclusiveness of the state exco of the party and failure to implement recommendations of the appeal panel sent by APC national body to remedy complaints that arise from the state convention of the party. To douse the fear of the group about the possibility of facing similar challenge if its members joined the LP, Apanpa said that not all its offices, including exco and electoral offices, had been filled, adding that the party has provisions for their accommodation and integration. Speaking with The Guardian, Ajayi said: “The Labour Party executives approached me to join their party, but I haven’t accepted the request yet as I want the APC to get back to me on my request on behalf of my supporters. This step is also to debunk the allegation by the Peoples Democratic Congress (PDP) governorship candidate, Olajide Adediran’s claim that I collected the sum of N100 million from the APC when I left Lagos4Lagos group.” Ajayi was the Agege council chairman of Action Congress (AC) during the eight years’ administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as governor. Coincidentally, Asiwaju is the APC Presidential aspirant. Ajayi was also the chairman of the state’s council of Action Congress party’s chairmen for the period. Ajayi was also the Chairman of Lagos4Lagos.