A serving National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Member in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), John Mfon has unveiled a multiple payment financial application, “middey”, to boost payroll management and funds administration for private and public organisations. Speaking at the unveiling of the platform in Abuja, Mfon, who is also the Managing Director of Middey Technologies Ltd, said the new solution would also provide third-party support for efficient settlement of payroll obligations. He explained that the firm’s new platform, which is fully automated, would ensure an easy way for both small and big businesses to carry out seamless transactions. Mfon said: “Looking at the current trend in the world, middey has been designed to solve payment problems. With middey using artificial intelligence, it will ensure that individuals are able to make payments seamlessly. For instance, companies who want to ensure that payment of staff salaries is not delayed can use the platform to ensure that is done immediately without the old way of doing it manually. “The key advantage we have above other platforms is that middey is automated and designed to be very simple. We have done a lot of testing to ensure that the software is working to specification and I am glad it is. We are, therefore, hoping that middey would become the bedrock of payment in Africa and the world at large”. He said that the payroll solution would help organisational leaders significantly improve operational efficiency and effectiveness in employee management. “We are looking at the way you can make payment via phone cameras. We are also looking at helping organisations manage their payroll system, at the appropriate time, without people having to manually do so. We are automated and very simple. “No need to copy and paste account numbers. With Middey, you just scan and make payments in seconds. So, we are hoping that Middey will in the long-term be one of the biggest payment providers and the bedrock in Africa,” Mfon said. Noting that the financial sector is highly regulated, he said the firm was working to ensure that it meets up with the standard. Speaking at the event, former Big Brother Naija reality housemate, Queen Atang, who was also appointed as the firm’s ambassador, appreciated the developer for the initiative, saying it shows that Nigerian youth are not lazy. She promised to leverage her social media brand to help advance the automatic payment solution to greater heights.