• CAF Dismisses Nigeria’s Bid To Co-host 2025 AFCON With Benin Former Nigeria defender, Tajudeen Disu, says all members of the current board of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), lack the moral standing to contest any position in the election scheduled for September. Disu, who is also the chairman of the Players Welfare Committee of the Professional Footballers Association of Nigeria, said this during an interview with globalsportsng.com in reaction to reports of NFF President, Amaju Pinnick and some notable members of the current board expressing their interest to run as president. His reaction is hinged, especially on the desire of League Management Company (LMC) chairman, Shehu Dikko, who is confident of succeeding Pinnick as president of the body and is gearing up his campaign. Buttressing the opinion severally harped on by the players’ body, Disu said the current NFF board has done a lot of damage to Nigerian football in all ramifications and will be sent packing in September at the polls. “I just got a report stating Shehu Dikko has stepped up his NFF Presidential campaign and sounds confident of succeeding Amaju Pinnick. How can someone who has completely destroyed our league be considering becoming President of the NFF? “I appeal to the federal government to disqualify Dikko and the other six executive members of the NFF alongside Amaju Pinnick because they are birds of the same feather,” Disu stated. He continues: “Allowing any of them to contest is as good as enhancing Pinnick’s third term in office because they are working together. “Members of the current board don’t know what is coming. They will all be swept away at the polls in September. People who know the game inside out will come on board so that Nigerian football can breathe again. “The players’ bloc is ready to wrest leadership of Nigerian football from them, and we are serious about this. The era of manipulating elections is over, and the upcoming election in September will be the turning point. “I am glad five reputable ex-footballers are in the race, and the ex-players will work as a unit to ensure that Nigerian football leaves the woods.” There are unconfirmed reports that Pinnick will attempt to secure a third term, despite earlier making it clear he would not be running. He is likely run against the First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, and Zamfara FA Chairman, Ibrahim Gusau at the polls. Jonathan Akpoborie, Benedict Akwuegbu, Peterside Idah, Paul Yusuf, and Kenneth Boardman are the ex-internationals contesting the position of president. No ex-international has occupied the position since its inception, and the players’ bloc is fervently seeking a change in the direction of the pendulum. The Guardian recall that the Super Eagles failed to qualify for Qatar 2022 World Cup, losing the ticket to Ghana in Abuja, while the Super Falcons surrendered their African title in an embarrassing matter at the just concluded African Women’s Nations Cup in Morocco. All Nigerian Clubs have become a laughing stock in CAF competitions. There were reports yesterday that CAF has dismissed Pinnick’s alleged bid to co-host the 2025 African Nations Cup with Benin Republic. Pinnick was said to have announced on Tuesday that he had informed CAF Executives via a room meeting of Nigeria’s interest to co-host alongside Benin, with several media reports suggesting that the event could be moved from troubled Guinea.