Thirty-nine-year-old American, Edward Joseph Snowden, a former computer intelligence consultant, who leaked highly classified information from the National Security Agency in 2013, when he was an employee and subcontractor said: “There can be no faith in government if our highest offices are excused from scrutiny — they should be setting the example of transparency.” 
  
Similarly, the seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations, co-recipient of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize, and deceased Ghanaian diplomat, Kofi Atta Annan also said that: “If corruption is a disease, transparency is a central part of its treatment.”  In a first-of-its-kind protest letter in the 58-year history of the apex court, the 14 justices chronicled the operational challenges that have almost crippled the efficient adjudication of cases.
  
Worried stakeholders in the legal profession are already of the view that the development could have dire consequences for effective adjudication of cases in the court and by extension the entire justice delivery system.   
  
Without mincing words, the justices reiterated that in as much as they serve the country diligently, and to the best of their abilities, they deserve the best, just as they rejected the treatment meted to them by Muhammad.
  
In the leaked letter, the justices accused the former CJN of gallivanting with his “spouse, children and personal staff,” while not allowing them to travel with an assistant on foreign trips, adding that they even lack access to legal research assistants, despite the magnitude of cases that are being adjudicated. “We are responsible citizens of this country. It would be a tragedy if the Nigerian public were to know that we are unable to resolve our problems internally without going public. The decision to write to you formally must be seen by your lordship as an effort on our part to preserve the dignity of the judiciary and the respect accorded to us by governments and the people of Nigeria. God forbid the day that our internal issues become a matter of national discourse. It would be a catastrophe better imagined,” they wrote. The justices recalled that at an earlier meeting with the CJN, they tabled and discussed their demands on justices’ accommodation, operational vehicles, electricity tariff, diesel, supply of Internet services to judges’ residences and chambers, as well as epileptic electricity supply to the court. “We also raised the issue of the failure of the Honourable Chief Justice to carry the justices along in managing the affairs of the court, the deteriorating condition of services generally, and the state of the litigations department. “At the meeting, Your Lordship agreed that a welfare committee is constituted to compile and forward our demands. On March 24, 2022, the welfare committee submitted to Your Lordship, a request for the review of electricity allowance because of the increase in electricity tariffs nationwide. The welfare committee also submitted our request for diesel allowance, because of the epileptic electricity supply, the astronomical hike in the price of diesel, and the fact that justices require electricity to work at home. The committee also requested the restoration of our monthly Internet allowance, because we require uninterrupted Internet service to have access to materials online to write our judgments. Your Lordship received and ignored these demands since March 24, 2022,” they complained.
 
Justices who signed the letter include, Ariwoola Adamu Jauro, Tijjani Abubakar, Kudirat Motonmori O. Kekere-Ekun, Chima Centus Nweze, Musa Dattijo Mohammed, and John Inyang Okoro.
  
Others are Amina Adamu Augie, Uwani Musa Abba-Aji, Mohammed Lawal, Helen Moronkeji Ogunwumiju, Abdu Aboki, Ibrahim Saulawa, and Emmanuel Agim. But in his response, Muhammad, who noted that the Supreme Court is also affected by the prevailing economic and socio-political climate, stressing that it was doing all within available resources to keep the court afloat. Responding to some of the specific allegations, the CJN said: “The high cost of electricity tariff and diesel are national problems. The Chief Registrar might have budgeted for N300 per litre, but diesel is now selling for over N700 per litre and therefore has to find a way around it, without even bringing it to the attention of the CJN. But there is no way that the generator would be put off if the court is sitting.
 
“The amendment of court rules is in the process; it has to be critically reviewed to avoid conflict with the constitution and other extant laws. Not all the CJNs have reviewed the rules in the past…
  
“The Internet services have been restored to justices’ residences and chambers, just as some allowances have been paid to them. The CJN held a meeting with his brother justices last Thursday, and another one is due to hold this week,” parts of the statement read. The Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola. Photo/FACEBOOK/MuhammaduBuhari  The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) also stressed the compelling need for fundamental reforms of the administration and governance of the country’s judiciary. President of the association, Olumide Akpata, in a statement, noted that the situation has not only affected the judicial responsibilities of the justices but also impacted the justice administration process.
 
“The judiciary must entrench the principles of accountability and probity in the manner in which it expends allocated resources. While the fight for increased budgetary allocations for the judiciary continues, it is important that available resources be used for the welfare and wellbeing of our judicial officers, as well as for the improvement of infrastructure and facilities required by our judges and justices to effectively discharge their duties,” the statement said.  This is glaringly a threat to justice,” Sambo stated.
  
He, therefore, called for robust dialogue and proactive measures aimed at combating the numerous challenges affecting both the Bar and the Bench to safeguard the integrity of the profession.
  
For the Director, Lawyers Alert Nigeria, a civil society organisation (CSO) Bamidele A. Jacobs, “members of the bench occupy very critical positions in the society. Therefore, a judge that works in an atmosphere of epileptic power supply and poor working conditions will not be able to conduct the much-needed research to enrich his judgment. “How then are we not making justice available only to the highest bidder by our neglect of members of the bench? He asked. NBA’s President, Olumide Akpata 