Enyimba could be Nigeria’s lone entrant in the elite competition The proposed African Super League, which will feature the continent’s biggest clubs, will kick off in August next year, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has announced. CAF President, Dr. Patrice Motsepe, Sunday, confirmed that the competition, which prize money is $100 million, will be launched in August 2022 in Tanzania. Motsepe announced that CAF executive committee has resolved to go ahead with the competition, adding that details, including the official name, will be unveiled at the launch event. Enyimba of Aba is among teams expected to feature in the elite league based on continental pedigree. CAF said the competition would breathe new life into African club competition, adding that winners and participants of the inaugural African Super League will receive significant prize monies and the proceeds from the tournament will include substantial solidarity payments to all 54 CAF members associations. “The decision has now been taken to implement the CAF Super League. It will start in August 2023 and we will launch it during CAF’s 44th ordinary assembly in Tanzania on August 10. We have been inundated with investors and sponsors, who are anxious to partner with us on the CAF Super League. It has huge potential to significantly uplift African football and to make it even more powerful,” Motsepe said. Motsepe thanked FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, who attended the CAF executive committee, for his support of the establishment of the league. “We will be engaging with stakeholders over the next few weeks to discuss the mechanics of the tournament and will release further details shortly. “A significant amount of the money from the CAF Super League will be invested back into African football and part of the process involves giving $1 million every year to every one of CAF’s 54 member associations as a contribution to football and youth development. We also want to look to increase the prize money for the men’s and women’s CAF Champions Leagues,” said Motsepe. The first 20 teams for the African Super League are expected to be chosen based on continental pedigree. Among the teams expected to form the first set of participants are Al Ahly, Zamalek and Pyramids of Egypt; Wydad Casablanca and Raja Casablanca of Morocco; Esperance, Etoile du Sahel and Club Africain of Tunisia; TP Mazembe and AS Vita of Congo; South Africa’s Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns; Enyimba of Nigeria; Simba of Tanzania; Al Hilal and Al Merriekh of Sudan. thers are USM Algier of Algeria; Horoya of Guinea and Primero de Agosto of Angola.