• How double taxation, NIWA/LASWA rivalry affect operation
• Safety issues, uncoordinated regulation, lack of high capacity boats hinder sectors potential   
With a population of about 28 million, Lagos is touted as the ninth largest megacity in the world, and one of the megacities listed by the United Nations with a total population of almost 330 million. At a growth rate of six per cent yearly, the population is expected to hit 50 million in a few years time, and most probably, become the third largest megacity in the world.
    
In the last 25 years, the levels of efficiency and productivity in the state have been adversely affected by growing weakness in the physical infrastructure necessary to support the basic needs of the teeming population and productive sectors, paramount of which is transportation.
   
Without efficient and effective means of transportation, whether in the form of land (road and rail), air or sea, the movement of goods, services and people, as well as promotion of trade and commerce within and across the state and environs become seriously impaired.
     
Findings in a recent global research project on 25 megacities, including Lagos, conducted by GlobeScan and MRC McLean (two independent research organisations, sponsored by Siemens, the infrastructure provider), showed that transportation exceeds all other urban infrastructure concerns by a large margin.
    
However, transport infrastructure and services have remained at levels originally meant to cater for a population of no more than eight million people, 25 years ago.
     
The density of the bus public transport network in Lagos of about 0.4 km /1000 population is quite low even by African standards. There are about 222 vehicles per kilometre of road in Lagos, which by far, outweighs the national average of 11 vehicles per kilometre of road. This congested state of affairs is clearly unacceptable. In 2002, a major milestone was recorded in the state’s transport sector, with the establishment of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) through an Act of the state House of Assembly.
  
LAMATA is charged with the responsibility of coordinating sector wide issues confronting public transportation in the state.
    
With water bodies such as, Lagos Lagoon, Ologe Lagoon, Porto-Novo Creek, Badagry Creeks and the Atlantic Ocean as well as wetlands covering over 40 per cent of the total land area of the state, coupled with lagoons and creeks consisting 22 per cent of its area, the physical environment of Lagos is well-suited to accommodate sustainable and decent water transport.
  
To maximise water transportation’s potential, the state, in 2008, enacted the Lagos State Waterways Authority Act, which established the Lagos Waterways Authority (LASWA).  ACCORDING to Lookman Oshodi, an expert in international development and urban governance, “when we have such a huge population in Lagos, where we have about 28 million people, water transportation should be doing more than what we are currently doing.”
   
Oshodi, the Project Director of Arctic Infrastructure (AI), Lagos, said there are quite a number of opportunities that should have been tapped into as a water-based city.
 
He stressed that in other water-based cities, such as Rotterdam in Amsterdam and Aberdeen, water transportation system has remained an integral part of their city transportation.
 
He said:  “When we look at a costal city like Lagos with abundant water resources, you will see that Lagos is not there yet, it is not in that category of those coastal cities that are utlising water transport models for their people. We need to do more, where we can have a boat that can take up to 250 people at a go from Badore to Ikorodu, or from Badagry to Marina.
  
“In the intercession between the lagoon and the canal, we can see what is happening, and there is no deliberate approach to use water transportation as a means of managing our canal, being a coastal city.”
  
In Ijegun-Egba Jetty, which can be accessed through the Satellite Town from the Upper Room Bus Stop, is a well T-designed metal shelter with petty traders.
  
A boat ticket is fixed at N2000 for a boat ride, while it takes less than seven minutes to sail from the jetty to Igbessa community, one of the 10 communities on islands.
   
The jetty leads to 10 Islands with an estimated population of 1,000 dwellers, which also houses the foremost Ibeshe beach in Lagos, regarded as the longest in Africa.
 
In the jetty, six out of seven safety life jackets were bad, while activities of the operators are not regulated. A regular user, Josephine Udeh, lamented the near absence of government agencies as most of the boats are privately operated.  She stressed that if government standardised the ferries available for use, people would not just go to their workshops and put three or four woods together and come back and say, I am a ferry operator.
FOR Bamidele Badejo, a professor of Geography and Regional Planning, water transportation is very important as a mode of moving people and goods, carrying containers and so on.  “I want to say that the potentialities are there, the benefits are there and the government is focusing on the development, that is why during the Babatunde Raji Fashola administration, LASWA was established, but you will discover that when the authority was established, NIWA was not comfortable with the establishment of LASWA, believing that it is an infringement of their constitutional right and mandate. “NIWA took Lagos State government to court and I am sure that they are still in court since 2010, arguing that the establishment of the authority is a constitutional breach, because the focus of NIWA is that, water transportation or inland waterways is under the exclusive clause of the Constitution, meaning that it is only the Federal Government that can legislate on it, it also maintains that it is only the concurrent areas that both the state and Federal Government have a hand shake, saying  that it purely on exclusive clause and therefore, they don’t have any right.
  
“But other states have gone ahead to develop water transportation, especially in Bayelsa and Rivers states.
  
“In the case of Lagos, it has been integrated into their transport infrastructure master plan development and it is being pursued from intermodality and multimodality point of view.  The issue of safety and security affect all modes of transportation even at zero speed.  A lot of people are not used to water as a mode of transport, this is where the issue of public engagement comes in. “In terms of safety, there are minimum requirements, like wearing safety jackets, number of passengers per boat, speed to be maintained by ferry operators and so on.”
  
 “If they are operating without government support, definitely, they will be operating on the economic gains, they want to have. So, if government has a way of assisting them, whether by organising them into associations, where they can have access to funds to improve on their services and operations, obviously, it will attract more passengers. “Government must also come up with some regulations. For example, why can’t these waterways lift heavy goods, such that these trailers that are carrying sand from Agbowa into Lagos Island into Apapa, across Ikorodu road, towards the whole of Apapa-Oshodi Expressway? If we have barges, you can imagine a 2,000 tons barge, it can ferry a 10,000 tons trailer load, meaning, it is going to carry 200 trailer loads of sand to the seashore, where they can be loaded. That will reduce their presence in the highway; it will also improve the lifespan of the road. All these are things that we need to take into consideration.
 
“So, water transportation is the way to go, but you know it has to do with physical endowment, you cannot dredge water to Ayobo or Abule Egba, because the geographical potentialities are not there,” Adesokan said. STRESSING the need for more attention for water transportation, an operator and Chairman of Fiki Marine, Mr. Taofiki Balogun, said the operational atmosphere does not allow operators to express themselves the way they should because of government policies.  “I don’t know where they got their information that people going on the boat are carrying drugs but our role is just to transport them. We have never see anyone with drugs, since we started.
 
“This is not helping tourism development in Nigeria because my boat business is mainly about tourism and we carry picnickers to the beach and tour around Lagos. “We need what I will call the bulk passenger boats to ferry people to work, because all these kinds of boats are not really fit. They are not good, they are locally made, even if we are going to build them locally at least, we should do it right. The people that are driving the boats are not trained. I don’t think a lot of them know what they are doing, so, it is very dangerous. We have a few accidents here and there.  We are not happy about it, because it sends away a lot of people that would have been potential clients.  So, they need to improve on that.” MEANWHILE, Lagos State Government said its water transportation increased from 0.8 per cent to 2.8 between 2020 and 2021.  Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, disclosed this, during a barge cruise from Falomo to Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge.
  
The programme was organised by the Lagos State Ministry Tourism, Art and culture, Lagos Ferry Services (LAGFERRY) and Goge Africa.
  
According to the commissioner, before the establishment of Lagos Ferry Service, the contribution of water transportation stood at 0.8 per cent.
 
“But in less than two years, the water index patronage stood at 3.2 per cent.
 
“Lagos is a state of aquatic resources and we are in a cruise ride to commemorate the Independence Day and also to showcase tourism potentials in the state.  However, Lagos can take coastal transportation to a higher pedestal by heavy investment and opening the sector to foreign and local investors, as well as creating an enabling environment for it. Bonu said that gone were the days when Lagosians went outside the state for entertainment, adding that Governor Sanwo-Olu had been working at ensuring tourism was domesticated in the state.
 
He urged Nigerians to patronise boat cruises, noting that it is safer, entertaining and economical, particularly for carriage of goods from the ports to other parts of Lagos.
  
Also, the Managing Director, Lagos Ferry Services, Mr. Abdul-Baqi Balogun, said the state was showcasing the water potential on social; business and entertainment as the service cruised over 300 people on barge cruise within Lagos.
Balogun said that whatever was being done on the road could be replicated on water without spending much energy and money. 