• Neighbour reveals how deceased hubby struggled with fire, rejected by hospitals
• We’re making efforts to arrest fleeing wife, say Police A middle-aged housewife, identified as Ifeoluwa Bamidele is on the run after allegedly setting her husband ablaze and killing him over allegation of extra-marital affair. The victim, Bolu Bamidele, popularly known as Teebam, was said to have returned to Osogbo, capital of Osun State from Cairo, Egypt, to give his wife nice treat on her birthday. The wife, according to findings, discovered that Bamidele had cheated on her and even had a child outside their union. Ifeoluwa was said to have gone through her husband’s telephone and discovered the messages the deceased allegedly exchanged with another woman on WhatsApp.  After  confronting him with the information, an argument ensued. The incident reportedly happened on Sunday, July 17 at their residence in Koka-Ibokun community in Obokun Local Council of the state. The Guardian gathered that Ifeoluwa allegedly sprinkled petrol in the bedroom while her husband was deeply asleep at night, locked the door and set the bedroom ablaze. She reportedly fled the residence immediately after the act. However, Bamidele’s agonising screams drew the attention of neighbours who made efforts to rescue him. He was rushed to hospitals in Osogbo, but was rejected due to the magnitude of the burns sustained. He reportedly gave up the ghost after hours of excruciating pain at the University College Hospital, (UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State, where he was eventually admitted. According to a source: “Teebam returned from Cairo to surprise his wife on her birthday. She discovered that he had cheated on her and even had a child outside their union. She confronted him with the information and an argument ensued. “Ifeoluwa proceeded to incinerate Teebam’s phones before setting him ablaze in their house. He was rushed to the hospital where he later died on Tuesday.” The wife reportedly left a cryptic post on her WhatsApp status before the act was committed. It read: ‘I’ve always been a calm girl and I have never done this in my life, but Teebam has pushed me to the edge. At this point, y’all will weep over myself and him before daybreak. I’m promising y’all that.” MEANWHILE, a neighbour in the Koka community, explained that he saw the wife on the night the incident happened and that she was only putting on an underwear and was not wearing any foot wear. He said: “After I walked across her (Ifeoluwa) on Sunday midnight. I discovered that she looked so strange. She didn’t greet me and was only wearing a shot and brassier. She was not wearing any shoe. When I walked passed their house, I saw billows of smoke coming out of the place and was hearing the agonising sound of someone. “So, I urgently invited other residents to help out. We discovered that the man (Bamidele) was drunk before he slept and that was why he couldn’t escaped. We eventually took him out of the bedroom through the window after we discovered that the door was locked. “I sustained burns on my hands while doing this. When we took him to one private hospital in Osogbo, we were rejected.  We later took him to Osogbo Central Hospital at Oke-Baale, they accepted us there but referred us to UCH immediately because of the severity of the wounds. At this point, we were able to contact his family members and they took him to the hospital.” Confirming the incident, spokesperson for Osun State Police Command, Yemisi Opalola,  said Bamidele died at UCH at about 4:00p.m. on Tuesday. She added that efforts were on top gear to arrest the fleeing wife. “At about 2330hrs of  July 17, one Bolu Bamidele of Koka Ibokun was set ablaze by his wife, Ifeoluwa Bamidele of the same address. The victim was rushed to Osogbo Central Hospital. He was later referred to UCH, Ibadan for better treatment. The victim eventually died at the UCH at about 4:00p.m. on Tuesday, July 19, 2022. “Efforts are on top gear to arrest the fleeing wife,” Opalola said. 