 With great humility and happiness, I am pleased to announce the upcoming release of my book, A Just Transition: Making Energy Poverty History with All Natural Resources.  As a follow-up to Billions at Play, I set out to challenge readers to consider the far-reaching effects of global policy on the burgeoning economies of Africa. While the history of African aid is, unfortunately, paved with failure, investment in Africa represents an opportunity for all parties to experience prosperity and real economic transformation. Despite occupying a continent rich with abundant natural oil and gas resources, African countries continue to struggle with an energy crisis. There are an estimated 600 million people across Africa living without access to electricity. Transcending this energy crisis and experiencing the associated economic uplifting continues to prove challenging as more and more investors abandon oil and gas projects to usher in renewable energy sources. While the objectives of this global movement to phase out non-renewable energy sources are based on a philanthropic idea, they unfortunately fail to acknowledge how substantially they hold back developing countries from prosperity. It is simply not possible for African countries to follow these emissions guidelines, lift African people up out of energy poverty, and produce self-sufficient economic prosperity. I believe that green energy holds great promise for the world as we continue to improve our technology and form more sustainable practices. But this is not a transition that every country can approach in the exact same manner. Through A Just Transition, I hope to challenge the thinking of prescriptive legislation that aims to “think globally” without taking due consideration for the locality in which we live. This extends far beyond just Africa, affecting other developing countries and the energy economy at large. I believe that there is a way that we can meet the goals for renewable energy while playing to the strengths of Africa’s natural resources. I look forward to sharing more details as we near the launch of the book later this year. Thank you for being part of this journey as we set a course for a greater tomorrow.  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Energy Chamber.