No fewer than 5,000 participants are expected at this year’s edition of Wealth Summit, a yearly event that provides attendees with a chance to get inspired and maximize great opportunities. The yearly programme had previously hosted Akin Alabi, Ali Baba, and Debola Williams, among others; and will this year bring together business leaders and financial experts to speak on wealth creation and management, focusing on the theme: ‘The Real Money of Lagos’. An initiative of Pertinence Group, the summit is billed to take place at The Dome, KICC Mende, Maryland Lagos, next Saturday at 11:00 a.m. The organizers say opportunities to make suitable investments and also benefit from business mentorship are some of the benefits attendees will reap. According to the Summit’s Head, Organizing Committee, Damilare Oshokoya, participation at the summit is free, but registration is compulsory. Oshokoya also mentioned that it would serve as a kick-starter for a weeklong celebration to mark the 10th year anniversary of the Pertinence Group. “Wealth Summit is our flagship programme and one of our empowerment pillars. We’re a people empowerment and enterprise development firm and we want to ensure that we stay on that pillar as we have done in the last 10 years,” he said. On how the idea came about, Oshokoya said the co-founders of the company thought it wise to bring in industry leaders with genuine stories to show how they moved from nothing to something; inspire young people and aspiring entrepreneurs on ‘hacking’ their way to wealth. “The theme of the conference has always been the Real Money of Lagos and it came from the idea that Lagos houses the extremely poor and rich but offers enormous opportunities. We want young people to come to learn, get inspired and leave with actionable steps about wealth dynamics. This is the post-COVID era, where a lot of things have changed, so speakers at the year’s summit would be majoring in how to leverage the new world era. This year’s conference will be bigger and we are expecting over 5000 attendees onsite and online.” Confirmed speakers at the summit include Niyi Adesanya; Oyo State Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede and APC National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel. Others are the CEO, Commonsense Group, Dr. Olumide Emmanuel and the co-founders, of Pertinence Group, Wisdom Ezekiel and Dr. Olorunsheyi Sunday. 