Download logo Iraqi Minister of Oil H.E. Abdul Jabbar Ismail has been confirmed to speak at South Sudan Oil & Power (SSOP) (https://bit.ly/3Ny83jx) 2022 conference and exhibition via video, addressing the prospects and rising importance of bilateral cooperation between the Middle East and East Africa, and between Iraq and South Sudan.  Iraq is a global oil and gas powerhouse, with vast onshore expertise and experience that could help transform South Sudan’s industry. South Sudan’s oilfields offer significant opportunities for Middle Eastern companies, investors, and industry leaders – particularly from seasoned oil-producing countries such as Iraq – to participate in the nation’s energy growth. H.E. Abdul Jabbar Ismail has been invited to expand on the ties between the two onshore oil producers; how the governments and private sectors of both countries can benefit from collaboration in energy; and capacity building in the local workforce. Amid an exploration drive by the government of South Sudan and a push to optimize oil production operations, the video appearance of the Iraqi Minister of Oil at South Sudan Oil & Power is a powerful signal that the country is on a pathway to a more prosperous, international industry with global partners. Returning for its fifth anniversary edition, SSOP 2022 will also feature the in-person participation (https://bit.ly/3P0keH4) of Ethiopia’s State Minister for the Energy Sector, H.E. Dr. Eng. Sultan Wali; Somalia’s Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, H.E. Hon. Abdirashid Mohamed Ahmed; and Djibouti’s Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, H.E. Yonis Ali Guedi. Meanwhile, representing another first for SSOP, Norway’s Minister of Petroleum and Energy, Terje Aasland, is also confirmed to speak via video. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Energy Capital & Power. About SOUTH SUDAN OIL & POWER 2022:
Join us in Juba on September 13-14 for this in-person event. Online speaker positions and online live-stream are available. Contact our sales team at sales@energycapitalpower.com to see how you can promote your organization as a sponsor or exhibitor at SSOP 2022. 