 The Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Relations, Mrs. ‘Mats’epo Molise-Ramakoae signed the Administrative Arrangements Agreement between the Government of Lesotho and the European Delegation for the deployment of the European Union Observation Mission (EU-EOM) to the General Elections 2022.  Speaking during the signing of the agreement, the minister noted that this is a historic undertaking for Lesotho, as it is the first time that the country hosts an EU-EOM. Mrs. Ramakoae applauded the EU Ambassador and voiced her fervent hope that by signing the Agreement, the Mission will be able to undertake its mandate without any hindrances. Meanwhile, the European Union launched an appeal for Basotho to register for the upcoming general elections. The voter registration is left with approximately two weeks. The EU is a globally recognised and credible actor in international election observation. Since 2000, the EU has deployed over 160 Election Observation Missions (EOMs) in more than 60 countries. According to the EU Election Observation Missions mission: The support to democracy worldwide is not just consistent with the European Union’s fundamental principles: it is our clear interest and a crucial tool for our foreign policy. Only a functioning democracy can address its citizen’s needs, meet their demands and fulfil their aspirations. EU Election Observation Missions enhance our engagement with partner countries, including in support of their efforts to fulfil their international human rights obligations. Electoral observation is not just the task of one day and the quality of the electoral process has to be continuously reassessed and improved. A democratic election is incomplete without a level playing field, fair competition between candidates, freedom of expression, of assembly and association, respect for human rights and a neutral and independent election management body. The Lesotho general elections are anticipated to be held in October. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Government of Lesotho.