Worried by the level of insecurity across the country, the Ekiti monarch and the Alayetoro of Ayetoro Ekiti, Oba Samuel Olufisan Ajayi has urged the Federal Government to give specific roles to traditional rulers in the nation’s security architecture. Oba Ajayi who lamented that the security situation has worsened and got out of control said that monarchs should be given a role in the constitution to be involved in the security of their communities. The monarch who stated this at the weekend while fielding questions from newsmen after the 20th coronation anniversary of his ascendency to the throne, held at Ayetoro Ekiti, said that the current situation also called for a meeting of traditional rulers of the southwest. According to him, the monarchs must brainstorm on how to solve the insecurity problem, “because no one else knows our terrain more than us”. Oba Ajayi who also called for the establishment of the state police added that, the current insecurity was caused majorly by negligence on the part of the government. “The moment the Chad Basin was dried up and the herders started moving southward, we neglected to police our porous borders. “So, the situation we are in now, has made it imperative for us royal fathers to brainstorm and find a way to solve the problem of insecurity. Government should mobilise the traditional rulers with financial resources to enhance security in their domains.” Meanwhile, former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has lauded Oba Ajayi leadership style which he said, has contributed to the development of Ayetoro Ekiti community. Obasanjo who was the special guest of honour at the 20th Coronation Anniversary commended the monarch for bringing peace and development to the community. “You told us of the progress made since your ascendency, if one is not blind, one can see for himself that development has been brought to this community. “Continue to do what you are doing because it has a cost and whatever the cost may be, be ready to pay the cost.” The highlights of the occasion was the conferment of the honorary title of Yeye Oba of Ayetoro Ekiti on the wife of the late paramount ruler of Akure, Dr Mojisola Adesida by Oba Ajayi. Dignitaries at the occasion included the former governor of Ondo State, Dr Segun Mimiko, several royal fathers from Ekiti and Ondo States, among others. 