Download logo Team Qhubeka (https://TeamQhubeka.com/) is thrilled to announce that it will return to the Tour of Britain in 2022. Featuring South African rider Nicholas Dlamini, who was crowned the ŠKODA King of the Mountains in the 2018 Tour, the team will compete in the UK’s most prestigious cycle race for the 10th time.  Team Qhubeka have an illustrious history in the event, having won the race twice – through Edvald Boasson Hagen (2015) and British rider Steve Cummings (2016) – since they made their debut in 2008. Boasson Hagen also claimed one of the team’s two stage victories in the race to date. The team’s roster includes some of Africa’s most promising talents – including South African Travis Stedman and Ethiopian Negasi Haylu Abreha – alongside upcoming Italian riders Luca Coati, Jacopo Menegotto and Kevin Bonaldo. Since the team’s inception, Team Qhubeka has played a crucial role in developing cycling in Africa. Over 50 riders from the continent have had the opportunity to grow through the team’s programme and race at the highest level. Qhubeka, the team’s charity partner, has supplied more than 100,000 bicycles through fundraising initiatives. Mick Bennett, Tour of Britain race director, said: “Inviting Team Qhubeka back to the Tour of Britain was a no-brainer. In addition to being one of the most successful teams in modern race history, the work Qhubeka do in Africa still needs to be both celebrated and given a platform from which their message can be spread. We wish them the best of luck for their upcoming races and look forward to seeing them in Aberdeen this September.” Douglas Ryder, Team Qhubeka – team principal, said: “To be invited this year to the UK’s biggest bike race is such a privilege. We have fought hard on the roads of the UK with great success in the past and have always felt the warm reception and support for our team and the Qhubeka Charity from the public. We look forward to showing our colours and presenting our young team this year in an event ending on the Isle of Wight, and its toughest finish to date.” This year’s Tour of Britain will see over 100 of the world’s best riders battling it out for glory across eight days of racing. Beginning in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire on Sunday 4 September, this year’s route will feature the race’s first visit to North Yorkshire since 2009, and first-ever full stages in Gloucestershire and Dorset, before what promises to be an unforgettable finale on the Isle of Wight (Sunday 11 September). Team Qhubeka are the sixth team confirmed for this year’s race; they will join a Great British national squad and the country’s four leading domestic squads – Ribble Weldtite Pro Cycling, Saint Piran, TRINITY Racing and Wiv SunGod – on the start line. Last year’s star-studded race was won by Belgian rider Wout Van Aert (Team Jumbo – Visma), with reigning world road race champion Julian Alaphilippe finishing third overall. A roadside crowd of over one million spectators resulted in the Tour of Britain generating £29.96m of net economic benefit for the UK economy, according to research by Frontline. ITV4 will continue to broadcast live flag-to-flag coverage of every stage, as well as a nightly highlights show, allowing fans in the UK to watch wherever they are. The race will also be shown in over 150 countries worldwide, in part thanks to the event’s partnerships with Eurosport and the Global Cycling Network. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka. Enquiries: 
Jean Smyth 
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 470 1710 or +31 625 739 033 Social Media:
Website: TeamQhubeka.com
Twitter: https://bit.ly/3rob3qb
Facebook: https://bit.ly/3ObXwfs
Instagram: https://bit.ly/3jwdJOg
YouTube: https://bit.ly/3LZSyR0
LinkedIn: https://bit.ly/34H4dUU About Team Qhubeka:
Team Qhubeka is a movement from Africa, aiming to build an inclusive global community; united by the common purpose of changing lives with bicycles.Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. 
 
We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in seven Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. 
 
2022 saw us return to UCI Continental status as we took the next step in our journey that will see us rebuild, with the intention to return to highest level and once again represent Africa at the Tour de France. 
 
We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage. 
 
We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 35 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles.  People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release.