Some suspected political thugs have allegedly vandalised property of some traders at Old Garage, in Osogbo, following the outcome of the Osun State governorship election. In a viral video, open shops belonging to traders were attacked. A man behind the camera alleged that the thugs vandalised their shops because they supported a particular candidate. Confirming the attack, the President of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Osun State, Pastor John Dike, said no one was injured, adding that everything has been brought under control. According to him, the people who destroyed the property were dissatisfied with the outcome of the governorship election. Dike said: “You know, in an election like this, you can’t rule out the possibility of dissatisfied persons. It’s not anything serious. Some of our people had their counters destroyed but we have brought that under control as I speak to you now. “We are not taking any serious action against it because we know that there are skirmishes of this type when elections come up and go. “The Yorubas that we live in their land are peace-loving and we have been living friendly. So, it’s something we can handle. There was no one injured as I speak to you,” he said. PHOTO: AGBOR TIMOTHY IN a similar case, some suspected political thugs were accused of storming the residence of the Osun State Commissioner for Lands, Hon Nathaniel Agunbiade and allegedly attempted to assassinate him. Confirming the attack and attempt on his life, yesterday, Agunbiade, explained that he escaped the attack when he ran to a police team before he was whisked away. He stressed that the hoodlums vandalised vehicles parked within his Erinmo residence in Irewole Local Council and also dealt machete cuts on three of his aides. The Commissioner said: “What happened was that while voting was going on, the hoodlums made an attempt on my life. I ran and fortunately, I was rescued by the police, who whisked me into their vehicle. So, because they couldn’t get at me, they then descended on my aides whom they macheted mercilessly. “One of them is still at Intensive Care of Osun State University Teaching Hospital). As I am speaking to you, I am at the hospital at Osogbo. “As if that was not enough, they now broke into my compound, vandalised the building and also vandalised vehicles they met in my compound. “ Two of those attacked were discharged on Sunday. One is still there and I am staying with him now. “The attack happened on Saturday while voting was going on. My wife and family members were in the house when they attacked and they had to lock themselves inside the room. “One of my men, who was preventing them from gaining entry into the room where my wife, my sister in-law were hiding, was mercilessly dealt with machete cuts and wounded by clubs on the head,” he added. 