Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered posting of the 9,989 constables shortlisted for 2020 to their various local government areas (LGAs) to deepen community policing. Addressing the passing-out parade, in Bauchi State, yesterday, the police chief said of the 10,000 enlisted, 11 could not complete the training due to their inability to “meet up with components of the standards set for the exercise.” He said the recruitment was spread across the nation’s 774 local councils “in due regard to the federal character tenets and in line with Mr. President’s directive.” Baba continued: “In furtherance to this presidential order, all of you will be posted back to your original local government areas to deepen the community policing strategy of the Federal Government and maximise your local knowledge in addressing communal crimes. “The importance of taking 10,000 able and active youths out of the unemployment market yearly is that these young men and women have been saved from the temptation of crimes. “I must sound this note of warning to you all. The bedrock of policing is discipline, and I am sure you must have been taught that the best form of discipline is self-discipline. Much as you have a promising career ahead of you, how far you g is entirely dependent on your character, discipline and professionalism.” The IGP reiterated his leadership’s zero-tolerance for indiscipline. In the end, Bauchi and Gombe states got 532 constables. In Imo, Baba again stressed discipline at a parade, where he was represented by Assistant Inspector of Police in charge of Zone 9, Isaac Akinmoyede. During the event, which held at Police Training School, Nekede, the IGP said the bedrock of policing was professionalism. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, represented by Secretary to Abia State Government (SSG), Chris Ezem and Imo Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ahmed Barde, implored the recruits to be good ambassadors. In his remarks, the school’s commandant, ACP Rilwanu Shaibu, applauded the IGP, Governors Hope Uzodimma and Ikpeazu for their continued support, disclosing that of the 444 recruits, 271 were from Imo and 173 from Abia State, with 247 being males and the rest 197 as females. SIMILARLY, the constables were charged to tackle the nation’s security challenges. Represented by the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Ede Ayuba, in Ilorin, the IGP clarified that the force intends recruiting 10,000 personnel yearly to bridge the noticeable gap. In Maiduguri, Baba, who was at the occasion represented by his deputy, Zannah Mohammed, observed that the training was to transit the recruits from civilians to professional police officers. SAME message was re-echoed in Ondo State on behalf of the IGP by Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Zone 17, Yunuss Akeera, at the Police Training School, Oyin Akoko. School’s commandant, DCP Aina Adesola, tasked the fresh constables on diligence, selflessness, patriotism and reputable representation. 