 (FILES) In this file photo taken on January 27, 2020 Canadian singer Justin Bieber arrives for YouTube Originals’ “Justin Bieber: Seasons” premiere at the Regency Bruin Theatre in Los Angeles. – Justin Bieber told fans in a video posted to Instagram that he’s been diagnosed with Ramsay Hunt Syndrome, which is causing him partial facial paralysis.<br />The 28-year-old pop singer recently announced he was pausing his Justice World Tour due to illness, hours before his first slated concert in Toronto. (Photo by LISA O’CONNOR / AFP) Pop singer Justin Bieber has recovered since being diagnosed with Ramsay Hunt Syndrome last month and is prepared to resume his globe tour. Due to this health concern, several performances in North America had to be postponed, but according to Variety, he is now prepared to perform again. Although Bieber is still recovering from the syndrome that left half of his face paralyzed amid all the uncertainty, he is optimistic that the tour will resume on July 31. In the first video he shared, the paralysis was visible to everyone, and expressions of support poured in from all around the world. Another significant update from one of his mentors and close friends will inspire all of Justin Bieber’s supporters. Usher, an R&B musician, also provided a positive report on Justin Bieber while speaking with the Extra staff. Usher said this: “I think as artists, we are all going to go through some things that people may not completely understand, and a life that comes with a lot of pressure. “I think he has obviously taken the world on a journey. And that journey, I am happy that I was at the beginning of, and I am still a part of to this day, as a friend. I think that whatever he may be experiencing right now, it’s actually really great to see that he has the support from his fans and his family.” Despite the good news, Justin Bieber still has a long way to go in his battle against Ramsay Hunt syndrome. He must get routine medical examinations and monitor his blood pressure intake in the intervals between performances. His health may be complicated by going back on tour, but specialists have already advised him to attempt. 