 Actor Amber Heard arrives in the courtroom at the Fairfax County Circuit Court in Fairfax, Va., Thursday, April 28, 2022. Actor Johnny Depp sued his ex-wife actor Amber Heard for libel in Fairfax County Circuit Court after she wrote an op-ed piece in The Washington Post in 2018 referring to herself as a “public figure representing domestic abuse.” (Michael Reynolds/Pool Photo via AP) Amber Heard’s financial status is not good at all following the trial against her ex-husband Jonny Deep, but the actress startled everyone by filing for bankruptcy after finding herself unable to pay the Pirates of the Caribbean actor’s court punishment. Social media was flooded with recordings, comments, and even live feeds of the testimony given by both actors throughout the course of the proceedings’ several weeks. Once the trial was over, the jury decided that Heard was responsible for Johnny Depp’s $10 million in damages. Depp would also be required to pay $2 million in damages. The Aquaman actress’ legal team informed the judge that she would not have enough money to repay the obligation as soon as the judge’s decision was made. Heard has since been involved in a court battle to find alternatives to paying the $10 million. She has reportedly appealed the jury’s verdict in order to have the amount reduced. According to a statement from the artist’s representative, it said, “We believe the court made errors that prevented a fair and First Amendment-compliant verdict. Therefore, we are appealing the verdict.” Amber Heard declared bankruptcy on July 20 and appealed to the Commonwealth of Virginia on July 21. Due to a lack of resources, the 35-year-old woman would be requesting that the decision be declared null and void. In response, Johnny Depps’ team said, “The verdict speaks for itself, and Mr Depp believes this is a time for both parties to move on with their lives and get back on their feet. But if Ms Heard is determined to continue the litigation by appealing the verdict, Mr Depp will file a concurrent appeal to ensure that the Court of Appeals considers the full record and all relevant legal issues.” 