The management of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) Plc has explained that the appointment of Ahmed Dangana as Managing Director (MD) followed due process. According to the company’s Chief Corporate Communications Offficer, Ibrahim Sani Shawai, Dangana’s appointment was approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). He explained that the approval followed the Federal Government’s restructuring of five DisCos due to the takeover of three DisCos by Fidelity Bank, including KEDCO. While explaining that the takeover led to the dissolution of KEDCO’s board of directors, headed by Dr. Jamyl Gwamna, KEDCO stated that Dangana was appointed. “Ahmed Dangana is a seasoned management consultant and a business turnaround specialist. He is expected to consolidate on the achievements of past management to improve operational efficiency and deliver long-term value in the company by reducing Aggregate Technical, Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) losses and improving the company’s revenue base. “With over 16 years experience in managing diverse portfolios across multiple sectors of the economy including power, investment banking, public finance, oil and gas and agro-allied industry, he will bring on board his deep experience in business transformation to maximise value for all KEDCO stakeholders,” Shawai added. He disclosed that before his appointment, Ahmed Dangana was a senior executive with Ernst and Young (EY), a multinational professional services firm. Also approved by the regulators, Shawai continued, are Ambassador Hassan Tukur as the chairman Board of Directors. Other members of the board are; Mr. Nelson Ahaneku, Engr Rabiu Suleiman, Mr Amaechi C. Aloke and Dr. Bashir Gwandu. “Upon assumption to duty, the MD/CEO assured customers and all stakeholders of improved service delivery and electricity supply in Kano franchise, especially after the completion of the ongoing capex projects on network expansion and maintenance,” Shawai said. 