For the second time in a row, the trial of the owner of Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Rahmon Adedoyin, and six of his hotel workers over the murder of Timothy Adegoke, a Master’s student of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), was yesterday stalled. The matter, which is being heard at Osun State High Court , Osogbo, was stalled due to the failure of parties to file their written addresses. Besides, Adedoyin was absent in court, but other six defendants, including Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwole Lawrence, Oyetunde Kazeem, Adebayo Kunle and Adedeji Adesola were brought to the court. The Guardian gathered that the hotel owner was suffering undisclosed ailment at Ilesa Correctional Centre, where he and six others had been remanded. One of the wardens, who brought the defendants to court said: “Adedoyin is sick. That’s why we didn’t bring him to court.” The prosecuting counsel, Femi Falana,  a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and the defendants’ counsel were all in court. But, minutes later, the lawyers went inside the chamber of the trial judge,  Adepele Ojo and when they returned, they started leaving the bar one after the other. Addressing newsmen after, Falana said the matter had been adjourned to October 10,  adding that the adjournment was because final written addresses were yet to be filed. He said: “We discovered that we haven’t filed all our papers in terms of written addresses and we decided to consult the Chief Judge. We then agreed to come back on October 10 due to the vacation that judges would be embarking upon.” Recall that the matter was first stalled, because of the absence of the presiding Chief Judge of the state, Ojo. The court had adjourned to July 14 for ruling on an application made by Falana for the amendment of the charges against the defendants. At the last hearing on June 27,  parties had argued for and against the application for amendment of the charge  brought before the court by Falana. Justice Ojo had adjourned to July 14 for ruling. The judge also hinted that final written addresses of parties would be adopted on July 14. It was gathered that Ojo, who had embarked on a foreign trip, was present in court yesterday, before the adjournment. 