No fewer than 511 constables have passed out from a six months intensive police training course at the Police College, Oji River in Enugu State on Wednesday. The 511 constables are drawn as follows: Anambra 184; Ebonyi 138 and Enugu state 189. The constables have been posted to start their service at their various local government of origin. In a message to the new constables, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr Alkali Baba Usman, said that the recruitment showed the determination of the Federal Government to address the social factors that accentuate the commission of crimes, occasioned by unemployment. Usman, represented by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of South-East, Mr John Amadi, said that the import of taking 10,000 able and active youths out of the unemployment market annually would reduce crime rates in the country. According to him, this that these young men and women have been saved from the temptation of crimes and have been given a platform to fight the menace of crime in the society. “In essence, all of you, the graduating recruit constables, are coming into a reformed police force that is experiencing an ethical rebirth and that is increasingly well-equipped, well-motivated and appropriately oriented. “The Nigeria Police is positioned to take the war against crimes to the fortress of criminal elements that are bent on threatening our communal values for peace, security and liberty. “You must, therefore, consider yourselves as the lucky few that have been found worthy in character, learning, physical and mental fitness to serve Nigeria, your fatherland. “For this, I congratulate and welcome you all to the big, strong, and resilient Nigeria Police Family and wish you a rewarding career in the largest police force in Africa,” he said. Earlier, the Commandant of the College, Mr Effiong Okon, said that in the course of the training, they were exposed to basic professional police duties, liberal and legal studies, drills, operational combat crafts and musketry. Okon said: “They were also subjected to a high level of moral training as well as tenets of democratic community policing, rule of law and fundamental human rights. “In view of this training, four recruits were discharged from the College for various offences that bothered on misconduct, while one was discharged on health ground. Furthermore, five police constables are to be retarded for failing to meet the minimum tolerable college code”. The commandant lauded the I-GP for massive renovation and construction works at the College, provision of sports equipment and complexes, solar street lights, 1500 KVA generator as well as repair of the college bus and lorry. “We need to renovate more hostels, staff quarters, classrooms, office blocks and rehabilitate the road network in the school. We will appreciate the assistance of individuals and corporate bodies to achieve this and improve our performance,’’ he added. Highlights of the event were presentations of awards to outstanding constables in the College; in which Mercy Chukwuani, got the Baton of Honour Award from the IGP. 