(Short Takes On Political Events Of The Week)
Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso’s appearance in a Channels Television programme, Politics Today, sparked concerns about the health of the much talked about merger or collaborative arrangement between his party, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Labour Party (LP), which has former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, as its presidential standard bearer.  While noting that he was currently jobless, Kwankwaso ruled out the possibility of becoming Obi’s deputy, noting, “if anybody from the Southeast under this circumstance becomes the presidential candidate of our party or any other party, the implication is that because of activities and many other issues that are real on the ground, Northern voters will certainly go for northern candidates in another party… it is not whether I like it or I don’t like it, the facts remain that everybody will lose. He will lose, I will lose.”
   
But, in a counter punch, Obi, appearing on the Arise Television Morning Show, said the NNPP presidential candidate was still living in the past. “The comment from my respected elder brother, Kwankwaso, is the reason why we have 100 million Nigerians living in poverty; the reason why we have 18 million Nigerian children out of school.
   
“It is the reason why we have over 55% of Nigerians on the under or unemployment ladder. It is the reason why Nigeria is unsecured, because rather than vote for competence; we choose to vote for incompetence based on a primitive consideration of ethnicity and religion.
     
“What we’ve chosen to do in this country is to consistently hire vehicle drivers to fly the Nigerian airplane instead of hiring qualified pilots. My commitment is, let us campaign and deal with issues of the problem of the country.”  President Buhari Entangled In Kuje Correctional
THE attack on Medium Correctional Centre in Kuje, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja within the week provided President Muhammadu Buhari an immediate instance of declining security in the country.
   
When the President visited and witnessed the devastation caused by the security in the facility, he wanted answers to some critical questions: “How did the defences at the prison fail to prevent the attack? How many inmates were in the facility?
   
“How many of them can you account for? How many personnel did you have on duty? How many of them were armed? Were there guards on the watchtower? What did they do? Does the CCTV work?”
   Like many Nigerians, the President said he was disappointed with the intelligence system, wondering, “How can terrorists organise, have weapons, attack a security installation and get away with it?”  ‘Virgins’ In The Villa
UNLIKE in 2015, when he mounted the saddle and wasted six months before constituting his cabinet, President Buhari, last Wednesday assigned portfolios to the seven ministers he nominated as replacement to those who left the cabinet to pursue their political ambitions for next year’s election.
   
The President fulfilled his promised to appoint new ministers, but also continued the cabinet reshuffle be hinted at earlier in the year as an incremental process.
  
The fresh ministers, who were earlier screened and cleared by the Senate included, Ikechukwu Ikoh, (Minister of State, Science and Technology); Umana Umana, (Minister of Niger Delta Affairs); Udi Odum, (Minister of State, Environment); Ademola Adegoroye, (Minister of State, Transport); Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub, (Minister of State, Works and Housing); Goodluck Opiah, (Minister of State, Education) and Nkama Ekumankama, Minister of State, Health.  Barkindo’s Mortal Homecoming
BY the time he was flying back to Nigeria, the former OPEC Secretary General must have told his colleagues that he was going home. But, that homecoming ended up as his final journey back to the land of see-him-no-more.
   
The former Secretary-General of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, was in Nigeria to apprise President Buhari that he would be completing his tenure by July 31.
  
At the Presidential Villa that fateful Tuesday, Barkindo told the President that it was an “honour of a lifetime for you to have given me the opportunity to serve as OPEC Secretary-General Number 28. I’ll forever remain grateful.”
 
While appreciating President Buhari for his assistance and guidance, the former OPEC Secretary General stated: “I recall vividly that when I assumed office in the summer of 2016 in Vienna, oil prices had dropped to below ten dollars per barrel. It was very obvious to me that it was beyond OPEC alone to handle.
     
“I recall that I consulted with you on telephone, and I benefited, indeed, drank from your deep knowledge of OPEC affairs. And we were able to steady the oil market.
    
“Throughout the period I served, I benefited from your tremendous goodwill. Everywhere I went in this world, both within OPEC and outside, the first person that Presidents, Prime Ministers, Kings ask for is you. They say, ‘how is my brother, President Buhari?’ I, therefore, benefited from this charisma of yours, the international gravitas you have, and it made my job much easier.”  “There is no doubt about your efforts in putting together the Declaration of Cooperation which is the largest in the history of OPEC and the global oil industry and also the longest in duration in the history of the organization. This was a herculean task.”
   
Barkindo’s sudden demise at the point of his meritorious service left the world, especially the petroleum community in Vienna in shock.