Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, has said his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, would remain in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ortom said despite the treatment he received from Atiku Abubakar, the party’s presidential flag bearer for the 2023 election, he, Wike, Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, and others would remain in the party. He made this known, yesterday, while speaking on Arise TV’s ‘The Morning Show’, adding that he had a meeting with Wike, Makinde and Abia State governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, in the United Kingdom, recently, where they agreed they would not leave the PDP. It would be recalled that Wike was not pleased with Atiku’s decision to pick Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as his running mate in the forthcoming election. Ortom, who had faulted Atiku’s decision for snubbing Wike, said he and his aggrieved colleagues have agreed to remain in PDP. He, however, called on the former Vice President to reach out to Wike for reconciliation, adding that it is not too late to resolve the crisis in the PDP. He said: “One thing I want to assure Nigerians is that we are not going to defect to any political party. Wike, in particular, has been very instrumental to the growth of our party in the absence of any former President produced by our dear party. “You are aware that President Olusegun Obasanjo that was produced by this party…you are aware that President Goodluck Jonathan that was produced by this party also has issues. They decided not to get involved in what is happening in the party. “So, Wike was the anchor man. We discussed this matter in our meeting in London, and we all agreed that we are not leaving the party. But let there be due process and the need to ensure that everybody is carried along. “You’re aware that since the emergence of PDP in Nigeria, Wike has been there. Even some of us, because of the injustice that was meted out on us in 2015, left for APC, until APC started dancing in the wrong direction. “Then, we went back to PDP. Who was instrumental in my coming back? It was Wike. It is not late to put our house in order.”