*Troops neutralise notorious terrorist in Kaduna, recover guns, charms *Bello lauds military for engaging terrorists in Sarkin Pawa *Taraba residents count losses as bandits strike Gumen have killed nine persons and abducted an unspecified number at Ruwan Godiya and Kwai communities in Faskari Local Council of Katsina State.   The terrorists, riding on motorcycles and wielding exotic weapons, were said to have struck between noon and 01:00 p.m., yesterday. They injured several people and rustled an unspecified number of domestic animals. While confirming the incident, the police said six persons lost their lives and six others sustained injuries. However, troops in Kaduna have killed the suspected kingpin of a gang terrorising the state. The Kaduna State government said the notorious bandit was one of the leaders of a gang attacking Kidunu general area around Eastern By-Pass, Chikun Local Council. As he was neutralised, two AK-47 rifles were recovered, along with charms, a mobile phone and two motorcycles by security forces. For swift response to a planned attack on a military base and communities in Munya Local Council of Niger State, Governor Abubakar Bello has lauded the military and other security agencies. The governor, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Noel Berje, stated, yesterday, the planned attack would have been devastating, if not for the swift response of the gallant soldiers at Sarkin Pawa, and the reinforcement team that responded swiftly to distress calls. The governor reiterated the commitment of the state and Federal governments to end terrorism in the state.   Also, the police have nabbed 10 youths for thuggery and disturbance of public peace in Minna metropolis and environs. Meanwhile, the destruction of life and property following bandits’ attacks in the southern part of Taraba State has continued to inflict sorrow on families. The unabated killings, which began in the Kpambo Puri community of Takum Local Council, three months ago, has, no doubt, spilled over to no fewer than 15 villages in the council. Apart from the death toll, which The Guardian learnt has risen to 40, over 70,000 persons were reportedly displaced. At the time of this report, cows were said to be feeding on crops in the affected communities, which residents had deserted.