Federal Government has given approval for the implementation of reform initiatives of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) to strengthen the advertising ecosystem, encourage inclusive growth and attract investment to the industry. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, disclosed this in Epe, Lagos State, at the 49th Annual General Meeting of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN). In his paper, entitled: ‘The New World Order: Digital Transformation in Communication’, the minister said advertising and brand marketing are prime examples of sectors where consumer data is critical; hence, the need to leverage technology for direct engagement with the audiences. He said, in a world rapidly changing in its dynamics of opportunity and risks, talking directly with consumers in a data-enabled environment has taken brands and entrepreneurs closer to their consumers more than ever before. Mohammed said the realisation of the power of technology in brand communication necessitated the setting up of the Ministerial Task Team on Audience Measurement System to give a legal and constitutional framework to a national, systemic, accountable and data-driven understanding of the impact of communication on consumer behaviour. The minister expressed the desire that all relevant parties in the Task Team would be able to complete tasks and initiate legislative processes necessary for the implementation of audience measurement before the end of the current administration. He advised AAAN to be wary of the impact of deliberately fake news, orchestrated disinformation, and de-marketing by unscrupulous and faceless purveyors online. He said this presents huge risks to brand communication and undermines the most critical ingredient to successful consumer engagement, which is trust. He said: “We need you, as seasoned communicators and critical stakeholders, to also consider the roll-on effect of fake news and disinformation on the economy of advertising and brand marketing, both in the short and long term. It lays ambush on every brand promise and every potential argument you make to the benefit of your products and services.” He said the Federal Government is committed to exploring all opportunities offered by social networking sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp, for the benefit of the people. The minister also noted that some major tech giants have shown interest in investing and exploring business opportunities in the Nigerian digital space. Earlier, the President of AAAN, Mr. Steve Babaeko, commended the minister for his untiring efforts toward repositioning the advertising ecosystem in Nigeria. The Registrar/Chief Executive of APCON, Dr Olalekan Fadolapo, and the Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, Mr. Folorunsho Coker, accompanied the minister to the event. 