Director-General of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Lanre Gbajabiamila, has said the Nigeria National Games was conceived to boost the job creation efforts of the Federal Government. He noted that the Games would also boost revenue generation, adding, “we have a shortcode that will be used just to play this game again and there is also a jackpot game.” Speaking during the launch of Games’ launch in Abuja, on Monday, the NLRC boss promised to ensure the integrity of the game and lottery industry in the country. The Nigerian National Game was unveiled alongside National Lottery logo, designed by Elrae technologies, at the event. Also speaking at the launch, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, noted that one European country with a population of about 1.5 million people established a university solely built and run with proceeds of gaming. He said: “The gaming/lottery proceeds have been used over the decades in developing national assets, building infrastructure and other social amenities that benefit mankind.	 Lottery/gaming is a game of chance where participants win prizes, be it monetary or otherwise.” “Whether the player wins a prize or not, it is expedited that proceeds from playing the game(s) will be channeled to projects that will benefit the player directly or indirectly. “However, gaming carries with it some misconceptions. Despite some of these misconceptions, many countries have put that aside and structured gaming to purposely raise funds to develop critical infrastructure.” “For example, we leant that the Chinese used proceeds from gaming to build the Great Wall of China to deter foreign invaders. Today, the Great Wall of China is a tourist attraction and a national asset.” In his speech, Speaker, Federal House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, urged the lottery commission to ensure the integrity of the games, while also warning against irresponsible gaming and addiction. He said: “It is necessary to have a robust, practical and responsive regulatory framework on the team by statute. The launch of National lottery game will provide more jobs and contributing significant sums to the public purse, which is the credit of the National Lottery regulatory commission that through hard work and determination.” Among dignitaries at the event was Director-General of National Lottery Authority, Ghana, Mr. Samuel Awuka, who explained that the Elrae Technologies in Ghana, which had been existing for the past 60 years, will contribute to Nigeria games. He said: “It is over 25 years Nigeria started playing the Ghana game; today we are making history for ourselves and to the team led by lottery and the people or the NLRC. We say congratulations to you. This achievement is not just for Nigeria. But also for all of us in Africa.” 