The Digital Bridge Institute (DBI) on Tuesday said it has trained about 80,000 academic staff of tertiary institutions in the country on digital literacy to further enhance productivity, and engender a culture of information technology adoption and application in tertiary institutions. President/CEO of Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Prof. Mohammed Ajiya, who was represented by the Centre’s Coordinator (DBI), Mr. Chukwuemeka Nzeih made the remark during a training programme organized by Igbinedion University Okada (IUO) in collaboration with the Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), the training arm of the Nigerian Communications Commission, (NCC) in Okada, Edo state. Nzeih in his paper presentation titled, “Advanced Digital Appreciation Programme for Tertiary Institutions”, said the institute is the training arm of the Nigerian Communications Commission, (NCC) committed to bridging the digital divide gap in the country. He noted that the institute has trained about 80,000 staff of tertiary institutions on digital literacy and data analysis in the country. “The DBI has trained about 80,000 staff of tertiary institutions on Digital Literacy. The academic staff were trained to enhance productivity, engender a culture of information technology adoption and application in tertiary institutions,” Nzeih said. Vice-Chancellor, Igbinedion University Okada (IUO) Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye tasked varsities and research institutes on the need for excellence in Information Technology (IT) training for academic, professional and industry experts. Ezemonye, who expressed optimism that Nigerian varsities would embrace digital literacy, stressed that Digital literacy remains a sine qua non for Nigeria’s technological advancements. He said digital literacy is for everyone, just as he stressed the importance, particularly for those in the academic community, which he noted will improve teaching, learning and research. “The training and re-training of IUO teaching and non-teaching staff on digital skills is part of our strategic plan to consolidate the university’s Smart campus regime geared towards advancing teaching, learning, research and administration,” Ezemonye said. 