To ensure Nigeria taps into the digital economy, CreditRegistry has partnered with Readmanna to eradicate computer illiteracy among teachers. Speaking at the Inaugural Readmanna Invitational Charity Golf Tournament 2022, held at Ikoyi Club, Lagos, Board Chairman, CreditRegistry, Fatumata Coker, emphasised the importance of equipping people with knowledge before empowering them with tools for premium maximisation of opportunities. “The best way is to train people first on the knowledge of what it is about and give them the tools to practice. This project is important as computers donated to schools often end up not being used because teachers and students don’t know how to use them,” she said. She added that with the initiative, students who are learning on their own can now get certified by Microsoft and the like. Coker noted that the firm looks to partner with such initiatives, which focus on changing lives and bringing wealth and worth to people. Other companies that participated in the competition included Edutech, Zenith Bank, Lotus Bank, Investment One, Firsthand, Agusto&Co, Julius Berger, Oxygen holdings, Stanton Chase, Sparkle, Holmes Consulting, Medplus, Banwo & Ighodalo and Consultants Collaborative Partnership. Investment One came in the second position, while Edutech came 3rd in the golf tournament. “This initiative affords us the opportunity to be a part of the cause where Readmanna offers digital literacy to teachers and students, especially from less privileged settings,” she said. She noted that CreditRegistry is a credit bureau continuously looking for ways to impact and is willing to support knowledge acquisition in ICT, financial education or others. Founder, Readmanna Empowerment Initiative, Edna Agusto said the initiative was birthed due to the dearth of employment opportunities even after education and certifications have been acquired. She noted that the initiative encourages individuals to learn digital skills by using a curriculum that is current, practical and relevant. According to her, teachers have been left out in the digital skill acquisition, which poses a challenge to the knowledge they pass to the students. “Teachers have refused to embrace technology and it is a big problem as they are far behind,” she added.
She noted that through their programmes, 10,000 students in Nigeria have been certified. 