International Federation of Women Lawyers, FIDA, Nigeria, Imo State chapter, in collaboration with the Okwara Medical Foundation, USA has facilitated the discharge of three indigent children from a hospital in Owerri after offsetting their accumulated bills worth N1.3million. The Guardian gathered that two of the patients, Wisdom Onyeulo (16 years) and Miracle Chimamkpa (17 years) underwent major brain (Craniotomy) and stomach (Lapractomy) surgeries, but were detained by the hospital’s management for five and three months respectively, following their inability to pay the bills. The beneficiaries were also placed on an education funding scheme in partnership with Dr Benedict Okwara, a United States-based medical practitioner and an internal medicine specialist. Speaking to newsmen shortly after the exercise, on Saturday, the leader of the Imo FIDA, Mrs. Ndidi Anike said the gesture was part of the association’s mandate to cater for the welfare of women and children especially the downtrodden in the society. She said: “We are here for Chikamso Ekeocha, a girl that was brutally assaulted by her guardian sometime last two weeks. When we came to intervene, with the view of helping out with the prosecution, we also ran into these children, Chimamkpa Miracle, who had multiple surgeries since April but couldn’t leave the hospital because she was owing bills and Wisdom Onyeulo who also had multiple brain surgeries and couldn’t also leave because he couldn’t settle the bill. “So we decided to intervene by meeting with the hospital authority and negotiated a 50 percent discount, which we are able to do, all thanks to the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital and we have a generous donor, Dr. Benedict Okwara, owner and Medical Director of First Care Medical Clinic with seven locations across the States of North and South Carolina and Founder, Okwara Medical Foundation. “So through this our efforts, these patients have been able to leave the hospital, having been discharged today, all bills settled and then given an extra stipend of N200,000 each to assist them in their education. “Imo FIDA is the voice for women and children, especially the downtrodden. Under my leadership, Imo FIDA is committed to our core mandate, which this gesture is one of them.” Reacting, the beneficiaries, their relatives as well as the staff of the hospital appreciated Imo FIDA for the gesture and urged other concerned bodies, groups and individuals to emulate their humanitarian effort for a better society. 