Stop dumping refuse in drainages, and waterways, says SAESI Disturbed by negative flood prediction for Kaduna metropolis and environs by the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET), officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), North West Zone, yesterday, accompanied by stakeholders, embarked on a sensitisation tour of the state to warn against the dangers of flooding. The Assistant Zonal Coordinator, NEMA, North West, Amina Ahman, told journalists during the tour that indiscriminate dumping of refuse should be blamed for most flood incidents in the Kaduna metropolis. Represented by the Assistant Chief Information Officer, Halima Sulaiman, the coordinator said that they were out with stakeholders to sensitise people on mitigating floods. “The rains have started. The river level is rising. People have to be aware and watch out for early warning signals. We are looking at areas captured in the Kaduna forecast by NIMET. “Based on what we have seen, there are a lot of waste management issues affecting the environment. We are hoping people will become more conscious of their environment and sleep with their eyes open,” the coordinator said. If there is flooding in Kaduna, according to her, it will have a serious effect; hence the officials of NEMA are out to prevent that. The Principal Senior Officer, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Hadiza Musa, noted the issue of flooding as sympathetic. “Government and community have to put heads together. Indiscriminate dumping of refuse caused most of the cases we saw. “The government should, on its part, construct drainages and constantly clear the refuse,” she advised. According to Musa, the NOA sensitises people on proper waste disposal and to avoid building on waterways, so that they don’t block drainages. Her words: “We have to appreciate NEMA for organising this stakeholders’ assessment. We call on all who are supposed to take action to do so to prevent endangering lives. “The way Hayin Danmani water is going shows that the people around there should move to higher grounds,” she warned. The Controller-General, Safety Awareness and Environmental Support Initiative (SAESI), Yahaya Mohammed, advised citizens to stop dumping refuse in drainages. “We hope the citizens of Kaduna will stop improper waste disposal. They should not assume that when waste is dumped in the river, water will take it away,” he stressed. Areas that were toured are Hayin Danmani, Kamazou, Kabala West and other flood plains within Kaduna North, Kaduna South, Chikun and Igabi local councils.