Nsikak Etim from Akwa Ibom State, yesterday, won the Masters category of the second Governor Douye Diri National Scrabble Championship held in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Etim recorded 12 wins at the DSP Alamieyeseigha Banquet Hall in the Bayelsa State capital, with a plus 1082 cumulative spread to win the N500, 000 star prize and the winner’s trophy. He dethroned Oshevire Avwenagha, who won the maiden edition with 11 wins and 617 cumulative last year. Akoofure Orughele from Delta State won the intermediate category, while Jacob Jonah was the winner of the veterans’ category, just as Burogha Douglas from Bayelsa State was the opens champion. There was also a new champion in the student category, as a student from Federal Government College Odi, Adeleke John, dethroned Ikoko David, who won the category last year. Young chess prodigy, Deborah Quickpen and Sunshine Ekperi, got consolation prices. Declaring the championship closed, Diri reiterated the state government’s commitment to using sports to combat crime, as well as develop skills and talents of the youths. The governor, who was represented by Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, said Bayelsa was open to host more national sporting activities, noting that the state had recorded landmark achievements in sports in the last two years. He urged all the winners to be focused and to not see their success as the ultimate goal, but aim to become world champions. Bayelsa’s Commissioner for Youth and Sport Development, Daniel Igali, congratulated all the winners for showing their skills, describing the state as the capital of sports in Nigeria. In his speech, Scrabble Federation President, Toke Aka, said, in the last eight years, the federation has not witnessed what they experienced in Bayelsa this year, stating, however, that he was not surprised because sport has become part of the state. While commending government for investing in sports, Aka noted that immediately after the National Sports Festival this year, the Nigeria Scrabble Federation would have its own three-day festival, as well as an inter-club championship. About 272 scrabble players across the country participated in five categories:  Masters, Intermediate, Open, Schools and Veterans in the two-day event, with winners going home with trophies and total cash prizes amounting to N5 million.