Download logo President Wavel Ramkalawan received the Chairperson of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) Seychelles Association, Mr. Naddy Vidot, at State House yesterday morning. LGBTI Seychelles is a non-government organisation that advocates for sexual orientation and gender identity rights.  Mr. Vidot was accompanied by members of LGBTI Seychelles Board which included the Vice Chairperson, Emily Gonthier, the Secretary Sasha Alis, Treasurer, Sanjoe Denousse, and Ordinary members, Sylvie Ah-Time and Sumita Joubert. The President welcomed them on this first courtesy visit to State House to introduce the association. He welcomed the opportunity for them to brief him on the work of their association, its objectives and plans for the future. “We should live in a society where anyone be free to live their lives are they please regardless of gender or orientation. As long as we respect one another and are tolerant to others views,” said President Ramkalawan. During the meeting with the Head of State, Mr. Vidot and his members had the opportunity to brief him about the work of the Association, their strategies in relation to three main areas of focus; Legal Reforms, Health and Education. Pertinent points of focus during the discussion were pertaining to national education, antibullying awareness in schools, health services, human rights matters, adoption process and other legal reforms President Ramkalawan has duly noted all points raised for further consideration, whilst the President also advised the association to continue discussions with all stakeholders to see the way forward. Speaking to the local media after the meeting, the Vice-President, Sasha Alis expressed her appreciation for being welcomed by the President to further discuss matters concerning the LGBTI community in Seychelles. She said, “It is a momentous historic moment for LGBTI, for us to have been able to meet with the President. We had an interesting discussion on tangible issues such as national education, sensitisation in schools, legal affairs, and health, and the possibility for LGBTI people in Seychelles to obtain equal rights and access to different facilities and services. The discussion with the President was open and frank. We are all satisfied with our meeting”. The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) Association in Seychelles was set up in 2015 and officially registered in 2016. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of State House – Office of the President of the Republic of Seychelles.