The City of David Church of the Redeemed Christian Church of God has showcased a commercial and leisure space built on 14-floors, located strategically at the heart of the fast-developing commercial area of Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos. Christened Trinity Towers, the novel project is a unique and innovative masterpiece that comprises three towers (South, Middle, and North Towers) all in one building. The promoters claim the building is the first tri-tower and first commercial building with the highest lift per square meterage. Last week, the doors of the towers were thrown open to the public where the brokerage firms, Estate links (Gbenga Olaniyan & Associates) together with Knight Frank invited notable brokers for a walk-through of the building, a programme tagged, ‘Agents Partnership Forum’, which attracted leading firms in the real estate industry in Lagos State. Mr. Gbenga Olaniyan of Estate Links explained that Trinity Towers was set up to generate income that would enable the church to carry out its wide range of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes. “The City of David has a major CSR project and expected rental income is in excess of N2 billion per annum. That is the kind of money the church will have for its CSR. All the fund goes to charity,” he said. According to him, Trinity towers building stands out amid its contemporaries in the aspects of having the best parking ratio of 1:33square metres, air, water, and land accessibility, high lift square meterage, which boasts of 14 lifts in the building, well-appointed retail shops on the ground and upper floors, making the complex a one-stop for work, leisure and play. Interestingly, the building is also an engineering feat by ITB, a building and civil engineering firm and the main contractor; having a transfer beam at the ceiling of the 4th floor, which carries all floors sitting on only that beam without pillars. Also, the building takes pride in several other features such as a multi-storey car park on split levels for approximately 673 cars, gymnasium and wellness centre, medical centre, recreation zone, ATM gallery, 4,500 seater concert hall, rooftop terrace, helipad, automated and integrated lighting, sound and video system, electric car chargers and smart access control, tenant-dedicated external garden terraces protected by a lattice framework among others. Olaniyan said: “As a building that offers prestige and value, key companies in Nigeria and beyond have started taking the commercial spaces even during the early construction stage. Currently, the building offers short and long leases on the available commercial spaces, A-class restaurant and food court.