The youth wing of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide (OYC), yesterday, lamented the collapse of the country’s security architecture. It spoke in reaction to the recent ambush and killing of security operatives in Niger and other states. In a statement signed by National President, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, and National Secretary, Comrade Obinna Achionye, OYC wondered why security agencies continue to suffer fatalities at the hands of criminals. The group noted: “With recent happenings around the country, we are tempted to say that the entire security architecture has collapsed. What has happened to security intelligence? What is the Department of State Services and the Department of Military Intelligence doing that we should keep losing gallant men and women in such brazen attacks?”  Diri, who was speaking during a gala night to wrap up the 2022 Ijaw Diaspora Convention in Newark, New Jersey, in the United States (U.S.), said the move would end the spate of insecurity in the country. In a statement by his Director, New Media, Kola Oredipe, the governor insisted on restructuring Nigeria and devolution of power to states. He also urged the Federal Government to respect the true dictates of federalism such as equity, fairness and justice. He said: “Security challenges are in Nigeria, and that is why some of us are asking for restructuring. There has to be devolution of powers to the states. Right here, in the U.S., I see policemen who are not federal but under the jurisdiction of their respective states. That is the federal system. In Nigeria, why can’t we have state-owned policemen. State governments should be allowed, and that will contribute to security in the country.” He said the current administration in Bayelsa was investing massively in security, to create an enabling environment for investment to thrive. He added: “We have been in the U.S. for some days and have met various groups and institutions for partnerships and investments in the state. Bayelsa State is so blessed in oil and gas but we are redirecting our energies to gas, renewable energy and agriculture, among others.”