Download logo President Wavel Ramkalawan accompanied by Vice-President, Ahmed Afif led a high-level delegation of government officials and heads of various agencies for a full day working visit on Praslin and La Digue Island on Friday.  On Praslin, President Ramkalawan was welcomed by the elected Members of the National Assembly for the two districts on Praslin, Hon. Churchill Gill for Baie Ste Anne Praslin, and Hon. Wavel Woodcock for Grand Anse Praslin. Also present was proportional elected member, Hon. Doyace Porice. The visit kicked off upon arrival at the Jetty Cargo Terminal followed by the site of new passenger Inter-Island Jetty. The delegation then proceed to the site of the proposed ‘Kato Nwar’ Marina, Baie St Anne main road and roundabout, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) ice plant facility, market and proposed reclamation area. All the recommended new projects and expansions phases being considered presents broad investment opportunities and increased commercial activities for Praslin island. During the tour, the President was brief on technical aspects of the projects to be undertaken and it was an opportunity for the delegation to exchange views, raise pertinent issues and proposed solutions whilst on site. Other key locations visited during the morning session at Baie St Anne, included anarea designated for fish trap, Dream Yachts and Baie Ste Anne Jetty. At each of the locations, the relevant officials shared and discussed options with the Head of State and other members of the delegation. The President also paid a visit to Grans Anse Praslin district where he viewed a site next to the new ice plant for potential commercial and recreational development opportunities. The delegation concluded their visit on Praslin at the existing Baie St Anne Jetty where the new SDF Seychelles Coast Guard Praslin facility will be located. During the afternoon session of the visit, the delegation continued their tour on La Digue island which began at the site where the Port Extension project is taking place. The delegation then visited the new Hospital construction site at L’Union where the President had the opportunity to see first hand the progress of the building. The delegation also paid a visit to parts of ‘L’Union Estate where a new proposed location for the new La Digue sewage plant has be identified. The visit was an opportunity to discuss other pertinent matters on the island requiring intervention and actions. At the end of his visits, speaking to press the President said he is extremely satisfied with the progress of the various projects viewed and expressed hope that the new proposed projects can also be initiated soon the necessary public consultations are completed. He further reiterated that his administration is interested in advancing projects that will benefit the whole nation and its communities and that anyone willing to contribute to this development at any level are welcome to do so. He stressed that opportunities for growth and investment are available for everyone particularly Seychellois and urged them once the projects are launched to engage and contribute to their island. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of State House – Office of the President of the Republic of Seychelles.