Suspected secessionists under the auspices of Biafra Nations League (BnL), operating in the Bakassi peninsular and some parts of Cross River, yesterday, attacked the Iyang jetty in Bakassi Local Government Area of the state, killing a policeman and injuring others. Details of the attack could not be given and the BnL leader, Princewill Richards declined comment on the incident but top sources in BnL said some of their men carried out the attack to show disapproval on government continuous detention of Nnamdi Kanu and other Biafran members. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Irene Ugbo, who confirmed the incident, said there was an attack on the marine police in Ikang (Bakassi), an unfortunate incident as a policeman was gunned down, while two others were injured. He said, “We also retaliated and I think we injured some of them. Right now, investigation is ongoing to unravel the group and I am sure they are militants. We are after them, we will soon get them.” Meanwhile, in a related development, the BnL has threatened to stop the flow of oil in the Gulf of Guinea to press home their demands.
The BnL also described the failure of the government to resettle the displaced Bakassi people as the highest wickedness, which has to stop else more violence would be recorded in the region. A statement jointly signed by the National Leader of BnL, Princewill Richards, Deputy Leader, Ebuta Takon and Chairman of Standing Committee of Senior Officers of BnL, Godstime Ntukidem, and made available to The Guardian in Calabar, stated that BnL is making efforts to stop the flow of oil in the Gulf of Guinea and that was the only remedy to get the world speak for Biafra hence President Mohammadu Buhari is insisting on court settlement over Nnamdi Kanu and other Biafran supporters in prison. BnL said, “We are making efforts to slow down oil businesses in the Gulf of Guinea, through targeted vessels that we banned, shutting down oil firms and very soon we will disconnect the pipelines once we meet with our targets.” They hailed their supporters at borders, especially the recently arrested members in Ikom, Cross River State and their followers in Bakassi, who have been able to sanitise the waterways from foreign vessels as the banning of foreign boats and vessels was a boost to the struggle, insisting that international business at sea will be frustrated but they should release their members arrested in Ikom or no peace. BnL described the failure of the government to resettle the displaced Bakassi people as the highest wickedness, saying that the Nigerian government is enjoying, using the condition of the people for politics. They expressed worry over increasing Military operations against remnants of ceded Bakassi Peninsula by Cameroonian forces, warning that such actions could lead to more violent in the region, especially bombing of more military equipment by militants in the area. The statement recalled that a militant group, Black Marine, which claims to be the armed wing of BnL reportedly claimed responsibility for the bombing of two military gunboats in Abana waterside community in the Peninsula a week ago, which has forced authorities to ask the workers to leave the quarters for safety in the meantime.