There are signals that factors that will determine the 2023 presidential election might go beyond primordial sentiments. For instance, the clamour for zoning seems not be getting traction as it used to be. And it does appear that a couple of political parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are placing emphasis on competence and ability as part of the attributes presidential candidates must possess to halt the socio-economic drift of the country. That Nigerians are grumbling under unfavourable economic climate, occasioned by insecurity, nepotism and poor management of human and material resources is not in contention. Figures from the National Bureau of Statistics  (NBS) indicate that about 60 per cent of Nigerians are living in poverty. But many believe hope is not finally lost as many tested politicians are throwing their hats into the ring to contest the presidency in the 2023 general election. One of the presidential hopefuls is Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel, who has been going around the country on consultations about his intention to give the presidency a shot. Emmanuel’s message of hope to provide a soothing balm to the pains many citizens are going through is not predicated on guessing or vain promises but on promises of replicating some things he has done in Akwa Ibom, which turned it into one of the most peaceful states and an investment destination in the country. From the palace of Obong of Calabar, the PDP leader sent message to Nigerians that he is well prepared to solve the challenges facing the country and make Nigerians proud again. He said, “Send me, here I am, and Nigeria will be the better for it. I have never seen the type of problem Nigeria is plagued with. You cannot travel by road, by air nor by train. We need good leadership and what God has done in the US, he can do also in Nigeria. “For this reason, God had prepared me for an occasion like this. I have been taken through the crucibles in the private sector. The exchange rate of a plummeting Naira has meant that investments have lost six times their value. I am here to reverse that. I am here to rescue Nigeria. Our situation is not irreversible. “We want to rewrite Nigeria’s history and put an end to all the insults being poured on us. You still remember what one ex-US President Donald Trump called us. All that must change. And I have what it takes to change the situation for better and restore our lost glory.” Obong, while blessing the PDP presidential aspirant, lamented what is happening to the country and asked: “Can we still say we will have one country? We used to travel all over the country but today, no more! I cannot even go from Calabar to Ikot Ekpene without massive security because of insecurity. Where are we heading to?” Speaking when he visited party chieftains in Lagos, Governor Emmanuel, who was accompanied by Col Habib Shuaibu (rtd), said he understood the challenges facing Nigeria and disclosed that only a competent leadership can resolve the complex problems, noting that the next president should have a great understanding of the economy. He explained the need for professionals to go into politics to fix the country and promised to stimulate the private sector for economic growth. He spoke of how he has administered Akwa Ibom and established Ibom Airline, which has acquired the reputation for being the best airline in the country. The aspirant said there can only be good governance when things are done rightly, urging the party to settle for tested contenders. Emmanuel said he has attracted direct foreign investment by creating a conducive enabling environment in Akwa Ibom, adding that Akwa Ibom is next to Lagos on the list of foreign direct investment in Nigeria. The governor said the country should rekindled hope about a brighter future to stem the brain drain syndrome among youths and described himself as a man of immense capacity and integrity, promising to strengthen the naira through economic revival that will reposition the country. To him, Lagos is critical to the economic growth of Nigeria. He noted: “A coastal transportation system for Lagos will further expand the economic prosperity, not only of Lagos, but Nigeria as a whole”, stressing that “industrialisation drive for Lagos will jump-start Nigeria’s economy and strengthen the naira.” While in Cross River, the party Chairman described party members in the state as “orphans”, an allusion to how the PDP-elected governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, defected to the APC, Emmanuel assured them that the return of PDP to the presidency will not just address their challenges but will make all Nigerians happy. He thanked Gov. Emmanuel for being the first to encourage and give the PDP in Cross River state the succour required in their hour of need. He assured the governor of at least 80 percent of the delegates from the state were in the hall to receive Emmanuel. Former governor of the state, Senator Liyol Imoke described Emmanuel as a presidential aspirant moving to the status of presidential candidate. He said: “From your presentation, no one doubts your capacity and capabilities. “You addressed issues and policies. We also see the work you have done in Akwa Ibom. Unfortunately, we lost of our own governor here. We believe if you get there, you will be a Cross River’s son as well. You are a team player, a man of peace and a silent achiever.” The Chairman of the Udom Emmanuel Campaign Council, former governor, Senator Gabriel Suswan, who described the aspirant as a true Nigerian, reiterated the economic woes of the country and said creativity is needed in government to solve the problems bedeviling the country. He disclosed that Udom set up Akwa Ibom airline that is being efficiently run with integrity, which has made it one airline that can be relied upon. Suswam said if Governor Emmanuel is given the opportunity at the national level, he will replicate what he has done at the state level. Senator Suswam said, “He is aspiring not on rotation but because he has the capability and capacity, he has the pedigree and his antecedents both in the private and public sectors speak eloquently for him.”