Kwankwaso’s party gets consensus guber candidates, others The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano State may soon face the worst shock, as Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s anointed deputy governorship aspirant, Murtala Garo, prepares to leave the party. The Guardian learnt that Garo, the immediate past Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, was perfecting plan to reunite with his erstwhile political mentor and leader of the Kwankwasiyya Movement, Rabiu Kwankwaso. The news of Garo’s defection filtered in yesterday, the same day Ganduje’s Commissioner for Finance, Alh. Shehu Kura, resigned from his cabinet to joined Kwankwaso’s New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). The Commissioner for Information, Mohammad Garba, said Kura moved NNPP to join Shekarau, who nominated him for appointment. Popularly referred to as Commander, Garo was endorsed by Ganduje as gubernatorial running mate to the Deputy Governor, Nasiru Gawuna, on APC ticket. Garo, who resigned his appointment from Ganduje’s cabinet to pursue his governorship ambition, was forced to stop his campaign train with the endorsement of Gawuna. The present decision to dump APC, The Guardian learnt, rose from his dissatisfaction with Ganduje’s decision to withdraw from the senatorial race, to allow serving senator representing Kano North, Barau Jibrin, return to the National Assembly. But Kano APC secretary, Alh. Zakari Sarina, though confirmed Garo’s displeasure with Ganduje’s decision to step down for Jibrin, said the disagreement did not warrant such extreme decision. “It is true that Garo was not happy that the governor dropping the Kano North senatorial district for Jibrin, but there is nothing we can do to reverse a collective decision of the party’s stakeholders. But I can assure you that Garo is not leaving the party,” he said.. MEANWHILE, Kwankwaso has endorsed Abba Yusuf and Aminu Abdulsalam as consensus gubernatorial candidate and running mate of NNPP in Kano. The new party also endorsed Ibrahim Shekarau for Kano Central senatorial seat, former executive secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Dr. Abdullahi Bichi for Kano North and former presidential aide, Dr. Abdulrahman Sumaila for Kano South. A list of the NNPP consensus candidates sighted by The Guardian also contained 36 names out of 40 members of the House of Assembly. 