The goings-on in the two major political parties as the country prepares for next year’s poll makes Christy Essien-Igbokwe’s song, Let’s Change the System, very apposite.  Big Pockets Versus Delegated Corruption
WHEN the National Assembly amended the Electoral Act to make direct primaries compulsory as the mode of nominating candidates for elections by political parties, Nigerians heaved a sigh of relief. It was believed that the direct primary methodology would ensure internal democracy with political parties.
   
The direct primary system was also hailed as a veritable way of returning power to the people on the path to accountable and responsible democracy. However, notable political actors, including the immediate past Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and members of the APC Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), led by Senator Atiku Bagudu, kicked against the Electoral Act stipulation.  Outrage
AS reports of high exchange of money for delegate votes filled media spaces, including personal experiences from contestants who were short-changed at the primary, some stakeholders cried out at the soft corruption.
   
Former President Goodluck Jonathan lamented that the electoral process leading to the 2023 poll has failed, stressing: “These whole primaries going on across the country is a mess. This is not a standard practice. The process has failed. We cannot use the process to elect president, governors, senators and House of Representatives members and Senate.”
   
The immediate past Nigerian President, who spoke at a book launch in Abuja, said the development was not good for the country, even as he called for the removal of Section 84 of the Electoral Act.
  
Also piqued by the flagrant use of cash to induce delegates, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and his predecessor in office, Prof. Attahiru Jega, decried the monetisation of the electoral process by desperate politicians.  “INEC conducts secondary elections, but it is candidates that participate in the secondary elections and the way money is exchanging hands that is a source of concern.”
  
Adding his voice in repudiation of monetised electoral activities, Prof. Jega noted that the use of money in Nigerian politics was a serious issue of concern, lamenting that rather than having improvements in that regard, Nigeria seemed to be sliding backwards. Jega said, “With the way, money is spent by politicians, the country is moving in the direction of becoming a plutocracy rather than a democracy. Plutocracy is basically the government of the rich for the rich by the rich. 