Key Verse: Ephesians 5:18: “And be not drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled in the Spirit.” (YLT)
ANY PERSON who is anybody in any arm of the church need the Holy Ghost. You may be able to speak the Queen’s English better than Queen Elizabeth II, I congratulate you, but the truth is that we have had enough of grammar and that is not what the church needs. The church needs the holy ghost. We should not forget what the church needs. You cannot function effectively in any arm of the church without the holy spirit. The Holy Spirit empowers you to do the work of the ministry efficiently and effectively without any form of reproach to the name of the Lord. In Exodus Chapter 31, God appointed Beazley, Ophelia and other craftsmen to construct the tabernacle and He filled them with the Holy Spirit. So, if you are a chorister, you should seek for the Holy Spirit, so that, you can sing under the leading of the spirit. Many years ago, I used to be a chorister and a choirmaster too. The choristers as they still do have time for prayer and fasting. In our own choir, we carved out some time to read from the word of God and pray, so that, as we minister in songs to the congregation, the presence of the Holy Spirit will be evident. There were times when the choir were singing, maybe they sing the first and second stanzas and the holy ghost will take over the place. You may have witnessed it and the choristers are not able to sing again and everywhere people start speaking in tongues and praising God in tongues and that will be the end of the choir ministration because the Holy Ghost has taken over. It is all about the spirit; it is not about the flesh. In those days when people are saved and they are not yet baptised in the Holy Spirit, they will be very uncomfortable because that is always the next step. The missing link in the church today is the Holy Spirit. Our fathers of faith followed Acts of the Apostles and once they know people have been saved, the next thing is to get them baptised in the Holy Spirit. When the apostles heard that the people of Samaria had accepted the word of God, they sent Peter, James and John so that they will baptise them in the Holy Ghost, that is the next thing (Acts 8:14-15). In Acts Chapter 10, as Peter ministered the word of God in Gentiles, the holy ghost fell on all of them, which heard the word. The Jewish Christians that were with Peter were wondering if they were to baptise or not to baptise the people in water? Peter commanded that since they are already baptised in the Holy Ghost, they should be baptised in the water (Acts 10:47- 48). Let me ask a question, are all the churches still preaching about Pentecost? The answer is no! This is so, because not all the churches are still preaching Pentecost. Even some pastors do not preach Pentecost on their pulpit from January to December. Why will a pastor in the Pentecostal Church not preach Pentecost on his pulpit not until you invite a guest speaker? What type of thing is that? Every minister should minister Pentecost from his pulpit, if you cannot, you then have a problem. Anywhere people were saved in the apostles’ times, the next thing was the baptism of the Holy Spirit. After Saul was converted, the Spirit of God led Ananias to go pray for Saul and immediately he received the Holy Spirit.
  • Today’s nugget: Holy Spirit is the missing link in the church
Prayer: Lord fill me with the Holy Ghost. Prayer lines: 08054477940. E-mail: servantofgod111@yahoo.com. Rev. Pastor Ejikeme Ejim, General Superintendent, Assemblies of God Nigeria 