Over the last two decades, reverberation from loud cheers in the promising streets of Africa on a steamy night of UEFA Champions League football has transformed from being rarities to a cultural phenomenon. Regardless of who is asked, Champions League football nights characterised by an uneasy adrenaline rush, nervy breaths, sweaty palms and native banter have become harmless addictions for lovers of the beautiful game on the continent. The reason for the impact of such nights is not far-fetched. Africa, rich with 1.3 billion people and accounting for about 16 per cent of the world’s human population, has an estimated 300 million football lovers tuning in to catch a glimpse of their favourite teams and stars on the UEFA Champions League stage every season. Champions League viewership is bolstered by the convenience of its primarily night TV broadcasts, which sees an average of 33 per cent of all African TV viewing audiences tuning in every game night. In 2018, Nigeria (22 per cent), Uganda (22 per cent), Tanzania (32 per cent), Kenya (37 per cent), Ghana (46 per cent), and Rwanda (49 per cent) represented six countries with the highest average rates of football viewing audiences in sub-Saharan Africa according to Geopoll. This puts the continent significantly high on the Champions League football viewership ranking, behind only Europe and Asia. Apart from having numerous local football stars contributing to their European club’s success, an unmistakable passion for the elite club football competition and willingness to part with hard-earned money every game night makes the continent a great contributor to Europe’s positioning as football’s mecca. As such, it is the norm to see the African people pride themselves on being an important piece of the competition’s jigsaw while soaking up the euphoria of game nights with a clink of their favourite beer bottles in local pubs and arenas. On these nights, Heineken brand, known for its strong association with the UCL and its over $250 million investments in over 57 breweries and plants in Africa, is overwhelmingly the choice beer brand for football lovers on the continent. In return, the beer brand commits to making Champion League nights an unforgettable experience for African consumers, setting up viewing arenas across the continent and doling out mouth-watering rewards every season. The decades-long relationship between African football lovers and Heineken reached a height with the beer giant’s sponsorship of a unique Champions League trophy tour across the continent in April 2022. To fans’ amazement, the tour, with stops in Nigeria, Ethiopia, Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) was spearheaded by Dutch football legend and four-time Champions League winner Clarence Clyde Seedorf. Seedorf holds the record as the only player in the competition’s history to win the UCL with three different clubs. And his influence as a football great shone through the tour as fans swarmed to get an up-close feel of the trophy’s magic, garnished with incessant paparazzi. The Champions League winner with Ajax, Real Madrid and AC Milan said, “It’s always an honour to share the magic of the Champions League trophy with football fans across the world, but my tour of Africa with the trophy will forever be one to remember. The passion of the people for the competition is unbelievable.” As Heineken’s mark of intent and recognition of the continent’s contribution to the UCL, the tour was not without African representation. Legendary Nigerian stars Austin ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha, Daniel Amokachi, and Taribo West displayed the skills that endeared them to millions of football fans across the globe in their playing days in a thrilling novelty football game on the Nigerian leg of the tour, with extra features from Nigerian music stars Davido, MI Abaga, and Darey. Okocha said, “As an African football player playing in Europe, there’s no trophy you want to hold more than the Champions League trophy. That’s why this experience will live long in the memory of football fans here.” Okocha has also been on two other UEFA Champions League Trophy tours with Heineken, in 2012 and in 2019 with Spanish former professional footballer, Carles Puyol Saforcada. Dutch footballer and subsequent manager, Ruud Gullit, also visited Nigeria in 2014 on tour with the trophy as well as Argentine professional football coach and former player, Hernán Jorge Crespo in 2018. The 2022 trophy tour, however, culminated in the viewing of UCL Quarter-Final games, with Seedorf relishing the magic of the elite club competition with African fans at various viewing arenas set up by Heineken. But it is the significance of African football lovers’ contribution to the economy through their Champions League obsession and the recognition of such by Heineken that leaves the sweetest taste in the mouth. According to an Economist Intelligence Unit report, of Africa’s retail spending which surpassed $1.4 trillion in 2016, the FMCG sub-sectors of food, beverages, and tobacco accounted for roughly two-thirds of the total consumption. Consumer expenditure on the continent is also projected to reach $2.1 trillion by 2025. This is important for Heineken, whose association with the UCL has made it a household name on the continent. Its realisation of €3,159 million in revenue and €442 million in operating profit in 2021 across Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe (AMEEE) positions it as a leading global beer brand with further prospects for investments and growth in the African continent. Bram Westerbrink, Senior Global Director, Heineken, said: “The potential of Africa’s growth market is incredibly underestimated. The continent’s demand for goods and services is made stronger by the people’s admirable passion for football and we are delighted to be creating a lifetime experience for them through unique investments and initiatives like the UCL trophy tour.” Hans Erik Tuijt, Global Heineken Sponsorships Director, said: “The UCL trophy tour is a momentous event as we strive towards fostering inclusivity among all countries and continents with love for football. It is also an indication of how we want to continuously impact the people’s lives with our investments in Africa.” In retrospect, the proposed but rejected UEFA Super League would have needlessly overshadowed the Champions League spark and caused a dent in Africa’s revenue from consumer expenditure. And Heineken’s ‘Don’t drink and start a league’ social campaign at the height of the controversy is right on the mark, seeing Africa’s joyful reception to the Champions League trophy tour; a testament to the people’s attachment to the historic club football competition. Expert football analyst, Segun Agbede said, “The history of the Champions League is one of the reasons Africans have a strong connection with it. And the economic prospects the competition offers local vendors and big businesses are reflective of that connection. This trophy tour by Heineken is important in showing Africans that their contribution to the competition’s success is recognisable.” With the tour, Heineken has been successful in inspiring a new generation of African football fans whose up-close encounter with the trophy and football legends would live long in their memory. As has been demonstrated since the tour’s completion, football lovers’ strong affinity for the beer brand has received a boost, having seen their obsession with a football competition over 7,000 km away result in a rare, up-close experience. Heineken’s fond description in Africa as the Champions league beer is unsurprising, as the brand’s sponsorship awareness of UCL in the region is almost double of any other sponsor. With the brand’s dedication to inclusive gestures and activities such as this, its perception as an official beer in football pubs and its loving relationship with Africans is not going to change anytime soon.