Sir: I’ve been following Reno Omokri since the 2023 campaigns started. While not questioning his right to a chosen candidate, it is self-serving and disingenuous of him to employ every opportunity at his disposal to run down frontline presidential aspirants from the south, especially the south-east. Peter Obi in particular is a capable, proven and credible aspirant under the PDP. Suddenly, these credentials no longer matter to Reno. He now talks of a strong candidate to rescue Nigeria as if the incumbent president is weak. When he couldn’t find any integrity dent in Peter Obi, he resorted to negative psychology – manipulating people’s minds to believe that he cannot win, instead of marketing his strong points and drumming up support for him. This is a common cause of employing prejudice. He refuses to acknowledge that northern politicians do not work in this way but, will always support their own unconditionally. He keeps making references to a particular region to conceal the mention of a tribe that is the target of his write-ups. Yet he talks of sentiments whereas his entire article is laced with ethnic sentiments and nativity clauses. For reasons best known to him, he no longer sees or mentions anything about the murderous and corrupt dispositions of the ethnic stock of his favoured candidates but takes delight in lampooning others. Strange enough, this is after attesting that Peter Obi is the best among all the presidential aspirants across the parties. This is self-contradictory and exposes Reno as another hypocrite. It is amazing that despite the carnage they’ve unleashed on indigenous Nigerians, he will be openly campaigning for another Fulani man to succeed Buhari at the expense of a better candidate. He claims to have been studying election data; did he discover that the North supports their people by hook and crook – by rigging and voting – unconditionally? That they’ll rather collect bribe from southern politicians and deploy it to run down the same politician, in support of their own person as was the case in 2015? Did he not reason that were the northerners to be willing tools in the hand of the south, for sabotaging northern interest, that they the north wouldn’t have been so politically successful? Does he read the back page of the data sheets or the front page?   How come he never discovered that no region has ever won a presidential election in Nigeria exclusive of the other regions? And that it was certain elements outside the south-west that made it possible for Falae and Obasanjo to emerge as presidential candidates of the two major political parties in 1999? Let him own up to the motivating factor behind his present positioning and stop hiding under analysis and ‘intellectualism’. It’s not too late for him to deploy his advantageous lean on the youths for a better candidate. Anyone working to further entrench fulanisation should beware of the backwardness, mayhem, bloodshed and chaos he is bringing to what is left of this country. 2023 is the deciding factor for Nigeria and the world is watching! • High Chief Ubandilogu Nwaokoma C. 