Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has tasked organisations to work on halting deaths from occupational accidents and diseases sustained in the course of working in the country, as statistics revealed that almost two million people die from work related causes each year. Sanwo-Olu added that: “It is important for people to have a sense of security and assurance that whenever they leave their houses for their offices and places of work, they will return home safely to their families.’’
 
The governor, who stated this in his keynote address at the 2022 Lagos State Occupational Safety and Health Conference with the theme, “Let’s Act Together To Build A Positive Safety And Health Culture,’’ organised by the Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Relations and Lagos State Safety Commission, said the annual global event has not only helped to raise awareness and promote the entrenchment of safe practices in workplaces to prevent the occurrences of accidents and diseases but has also ensured that employers of labour take seriously the health and safety of their employees.  “Lagos is the economic capital of Nigeria and by implication, our state has more companies, businesses and employers than other states. This means that we cannot afford to joke with or take lightly the safety of the workplace and health of employees as doing this will have a detrimental implication on the individuals, families and the entire Lagos populace. Globally, a lot of Injuries and accidents happen in workplaces and I believe this is what has increased the concern and demand for workplace safety and health.’’
    
In his address, the Director General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola pointed out that Lagos State government led by Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has consistently demonstrated its commitment to the safety and well-being of workers in the state by providing the necessary funds and support to ensure that the Lagos State Safety Commission joins the rest of the world in marking the event.
 
Mojola explained that the vision of creating a safe and healthy work environment in Lagos can only be achieved through effective dialogue and active participation in the development, formulation, and revision of occupational safety and health frameworks, policies and strategies. 