The Commissioner of Police, Enugu State, Mr Lawal Abubakar, says no fewer than 46 suspects have been arrested for various offences between March and April in the state. They were arrested for various offences including conspiracy, murder, rape/defilement, kidnapping/abduction, armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearms, theft, vandalism and cultism. This is contained in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Friday. The commissioner said that the operational successes led to the rescue of four kidnapped victims, recovery of 25 firearms of different makes and 31 live ammunition of different calibres. He said other items recovered were 53 live cartridges, three vehicles, six tricycles, two motorcycles and other incriminating exhibits. He lauded the support received from security stakeholders that made the achievement of the operational breakthroughs possible within the state. Abubakar said: I am commending a work well done and urging them to sustain the tempo, in the command’s quest to rid the state of unrepentant criminals and their activities. The commissioner called on citizens to remain law-abiding, vigilant and continue to support the police by promptly reporting criminals and their activities to the nearest police station. He said citizens could also report by calling Command’s emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 08075390883 or 08086671202. He said citizens could alternatively send e-mails to contact042ppro@gmail.com and/or report security incidents, using the upgraded NPF Rescue Me App, which could be downloaded on Android and iPhone App Stores. Similarly, the commissioner said that on April 27 at about 11 p.m., one Onyemaechi Okorie,19, of Uburu in Ohaozara council area of Ebonyi, allegedly murdered his co-worker in a construction site at Independence Layout, Enugu. “Police operatives in New Haven Police Division, swung into action and arrested him. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect engaged the deceased in a serious fight and used a rod to hit him on the head. “The victim was immediately moved to the hospital for treatment and later confirmed dead by doctors on duty and the corpse deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy. ” Meanwhile the case has been transferred to the State CID Enugu for conclusive investigation and prosecution.” The commissioner said that investigation had been concluded on other crimes involving cultism and armed robbery, adding that all the suspects arrested would be charged to court soon. 