Some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members in Kebbi State have alleged that some powerful elements in the party are replacing names in the authentic delegates list with those of their cronies. They alleged that names of three delegates had been removed from the authentic list of Nasarawa Ward A on the directive of a former minister in the state and replaced with that of his cronies and younger brother. It was gathered that out of the 225 wards in Kebbi, only Nasarawa Ward A list was tampered with. Some aggrieved members of the party, who spoke with journalists on the matter, urged the national leadership of PDP to investigate the issue and correct the anomalies before the primary ballot, for it not to affect the party’s chances in the general election in the state. Speaking with journalists, who visited Nasarawa Ward A, a PDP chieftain, Adamu Aliyu, accused the state executive of the party of giving in to the manipulation of a former minister. He said: “If PDP executive committee in Kebbi wants the party to win in the coming elections in the state, why would they allow themselves to be used by someone who stays in Abuja and controls the affairs of the party from there? He removed names of known members of the party and replaced them with those who are not qualified. How can this help our party?” Aliyu expressed fear over the chances of PDP winning the 2023 elections in the state, as some party chieftains seem to be working against the success of the party. “I tell you that the former minister is working against the party progress in Kebbi. He replaced some names with those of his cronies and younger brother. He also allegedly removed Mai Doki in Kebbi South from the list. How can any politician, who wants PDP to win, remove a prominent politician such as Mai Doki from the delegates list? “We are aware the former minister is working for a governorship aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC). We urge the national headquarters of PDP to be vigilant and investigate the matter, if it wants the party to win elections in the state,” he added. When contacted, yesterday, Kebbi PDP Chairman, Alh. Bello Suru, said he was not aware of any irregularity in the party’s delegates list.  However, he urged aggrieved members to channel their grievances to the appeal committee set up by the national leadership. “The appeal committee will be visiting the state next Tuesday. Any aggrieved member is free to report their matter to the committee, I am sure they will address the issues,” he said.