• LABSCA demands use of professionals on construction site; building approval, materials testing certificate now mandatory
• To seal sites without workers’ pictures, addresses, phone numbers  
 
It was a field day for scavengers, yesterday, at the site of the collapsed three-storey building at 24, Ibadan Street, Ebute Metta, Lagos, as they rummaged the site in search of things buried in the rubbles.
   
It was a case of one man’s misfortune becoming another’s opportunity as the scavengers, who are involved in buying and selling of iron and metals, had carted away all the valuables pulled out of the rubble by excavators from Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA).
  
The scavengers were seen unmolested, pulling out iron rods and iron doors from the rubbles, though they had to pay some youth leaders around before they could take them away. MEANWHILE, a widow, Lasibat Adams, who survived the collapse alongside her two children; Damilola and Omolara, narrated to The Guardian how they narrowly escaped.
According to her,  the children survived because they heeded her instruction to fetch water for her outside. She said:  “It’s true that we have been issued quit notice, but we pleaded with the landlord to allow us to stay until June. It is not that we didn’t want to leave but it’s hard to get an apartment, and those we got are too expensive. “I was told to pay N450, 000 for a room and N750, 000 for a room and parlour and they asked for an agreement and commission of N300, 000 and that’s why I remained in the house.
   
“I am a widow, I lost my husband 17 years ago. I lost all my belongings in that house, I was only able to escape alongside my children, but I have nothing else.”
For Madam Awawu, who lost both her mother-in-law and father-in-law in the incident, it was a bitter pill to swallow. She was uncontrollable as she narrated how she always visited her late relatives , who  moved into the ill-fated building almost three years ago, but was lucky not to  visit on the day of the incident.
  
Another resident, Joy Robert, whose son was a survivor, urged government to clamp down on developers, who use substandard materials in building.
She urged Lagos State government to scrutinise developers and building engineers. “There are many buildings marked for demolition, but the owners go to government officials to bribe them and people continue to stay in such houses.
“I learnt that the house was marked for demolition two years ago and many of the people, who lived in the collapsed building had left, but the wife of the owner rented an apartment to fresh tenants. They only stop collecting money from tenants after the warning was given by the government,” she added. But General Manager of Lagos State Building Control Agency (LABSCA),  Gbolahan Oki, has said that the agency will henceforth demand that developers must use professionals. 