Former Senator representing Kano Central, Bashir Garba, yesterday, lost the bid to secure All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket for Senate. Bashir scored 77 votes to defeat Abdulkarim Abdulsalam Zaura who pulled 758 votes. Declaring the result, the Returning Officer, Senator Tijjani Yahaya Kaura, declared Zaura winner of the Kano Central Senatorial district having scored the highest votes. Bashir, however, alleged that Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje directed delegates in the senatorial district to vote against him in the primaries. He raised the weighty allegation midway into the senatorial primaries holding at the Sani Abacha Indoor Sport Hall amidst large party delegates and party leadership. Although Ganduje was absent at the primaries, the immediate past Director General, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Person NAPTIP claimed the governor directed all the party chairmen to ensure delegates in their domain cast their votes for another aspirant in the contest. Bashir, popularly called Lado, expressed regret that Ganduje failed to fulfill his pledge, to ensure fairness and equity. According to him: “I expected Ganduje to be fair to all parties in the contest, but to my utmost surprise, he failed to fulfill that promise. We have a recorded evidence of Ganduje where he directed all APC leaders and party chairmen to instruct delegates to vote for a candidate. “As I speak here, a copy of the evidence is already sent to the Inspector General of Police, the Director General of the Department of State Service (DSS) and another copy with the presidency,” Bashir claimed. When contacted for response, the Commissioner for Information, Mal. Mohammad Garba, told The Guardian that he has no response. Garba who was also at the venue of the primaries, however, stated that he was not surprised as the aspirant’s reaction is typical of an helpless losses. Similarly, Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriation, representing Kano North, Senator Barau Jibrin and Senator representing Kano South, Kabiru Gaya won the APC return tickets. Both serving senators returned unopposed. 