 Dedicated to sharing experiences and deciphering trends in the African business world, the third edition of the Choiseul Africa Business Forum will be held at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Casablanca, Morocco on October 19th and 20th, 2022. This major investment forum organized by Institut Choiseul (www.Choiseul.info) and sponsored by the General Confederation of Moroccan Enterprises (CGEM) will bring together some 600 of the most influential decision-makers and senior economic and institutional leaders from Africa, Europe and the Gulf around operational working sessions placing the African continent at the heart of discussions.  Business community and top international leaders meet in Casablanca to discuss major African economic issues After two years in Nice, this 3rd edition of the Choiseul Africa Business Forum will be held for the first time on the African continent. As a major economic capital at the crossroads of European, North African and sub-Saharan dynamics, Casablanca will be a place of emulation between hundreds of economic and institutional decision-makers of the first rank. Business leaders, heads of state and ministers, international funders and representatives of the African and European business communities will explore synergies and opportunities to promote between the two shores of the Mediterranean sea. Initiating expert discussions on a wide range of topics to exploit all areas of value creation in Africa The Choiseul Africa Business Forum will bring together a hundred carefully selected panelists to discuss during high-level working sessions. Cybersecurity, the African city of tomorrow, energy, education or digital transformation: many themes at the heart of contemporary pan-African issues will be addressed. The Choiseul Africa Business Forum will contribute to creating links between the continent’s major economic players and to stimulating growth dynamics in Africa. See you on October 19th and 20th, 2022 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, Casablanca. « After two first editions organized in Nice, the Choiseul Africa Business Forum wishes this year to project itself closer to Africa. More than ever, the economic consequences of the Covid-19 crisis and the global situation are raising challenges for Africa, Europe and the emerging world, requiring to find joint solutions to face the future with confidence.», declared Pascal Lorot, President of Institut Choiseul. Feedback on the 2021 edition (https://bit.ly/3a7yK05) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of L’Institut Choiseul. Contact:
Ali Amahdar
Director of Strategy and Development                                             
ali.amahdar@choiseul.info Alice Fabre
Communication officer                                                                             
alice.fabre@choiseul.info About Institut Choiseul:
Institut Choiseul  is an independent, non-partisan, non-profit think and do tank based in Paris. It is dedicated to deciphering major economic issues and to uniting the  young economic generation. Institut  Choiseul organizes high-level events combining friendly networking, testimony from experts and practitioners and discussions on forward-looking topics, in different territories and economic areas, in France, Europe and Africa. At the crossroads of the business community and the reflection circle, Institut Choiseul offers a platform for private and public economic decision-makers to identify with each other, network, promote their initiatives and reflect on the major economic trends of tomorrow. https://www.Choiseul-Africa-BusinessForum.com/ #CABF2022 