All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant and former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has described the increasing number of people seeking the party’s presidential ticket as good for democracy. Tinubu spoke Tuesday night after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The APC leader, it was gathered, met with President Buhari at his official residence in the Villa, to pay him the traditional Sallah homage. Fielding questions on his opinion about the increasing number of aspirants, especially on the platform of the APC, the former governor of Lagos State said the development is in the best interest of the country, adding that it shows that leaders are not abandoning the country. “The more the merrier,” Tinubu said. “The more they come, the more challenging it becomes for you to think deeply, focus on issues and be ready to serve and Nigeria. It’s all about service, it’s nothing else. Think wisely, get committed to your thinking to serve the nation and bring progress and prosperity to the lives of Nigerians. “It’s good for the country for so many of us to aspire to want to lead, we’re not abandoning our nation. But there’s only one chair and one possibility. We will do that.” On fears in some quarters about the unity of the APC, Tinubu noted with confidence that the party would remain intact and united after its presidential primary, pointing out that President Buhari had shown that he is in support of a transparent democratic process. “We are sure that we will remain united. You know our symbol is the broom, you don’t break it as you go. Nigeria requires commitment, a uniform system and a stable country and that is the only way we can be very proud of Nigeria. “The President has shown a great example of leadership, gave us the freedom to say you want to run, you want to attempt, go ahead. He is a democrat and if we are running a constitutional democracy, you don’t hinder the desire, the wish of other people,” he said. Tinubu congratulated President Buhari for the successful Eid-el-Fitr celebrations across Nigeria, as well as his genuine efforts aimed at tackling the challenges bedevilling the country. He said, “President has shown a great example of leadership. He’s been very honest and forthright with Nigerians. Yes, we’ll continue to be challenged within this short period of time, but it’s left for us, the followers, to help, to be ready, to persevere and give hope to the populace and yes, we can do it. We will do it.” 