Everton blew a chance to secure their Premier League status as Brentford twice came from behind to earn a 3-2 win against nine men at Goodison Park, reports independent.co.uk. Leeds’ draw against Brighton meant victory for the Toffees would put an end to the spectre of a first relegation since 1951, and that seemed the most likely outcome when Dominic Calvert-Lewin marked his first start in five weeks with a 10th-minute opener. But, in keeping with Everton’s season, things were not going to be that simple – Jarrad Branthwaite was sent off for a foul on Ivan Toney eight minutes later, and Brentford levelled through a Seamus Coleman own goal. Manchester City’s Algerian midfielder Riyad Mahrez misses to score a penalty kick during the English Premier League football match between West Ham United and Manchester City at the London Stadium, in London on May 15, 2022. (Photo by JUSTIN TALLIS / AFP) /  Everton’s misery was compounded by a late red card for substitute Salomon Rondon for a poor challenge on Henry. Earlier, the London Stadium was a cauldron of noise as the home supporters, already in buoyant mood amid emotional tributes to their departing captain Mark Noble, jubilantly celebrated Jarrod Bowen’s second goal against Manchester City shortly before half-time. This was a game in which most expected City to move six points clear of Liverpool, putting themselves on the brink of the title with one game remaining. But West Ham had other ideas. Bowen’s double put City in unfamiliar territory. They had not trailed a Premier League game since February – let alone by two goals. But this team have a steely side in addition to all their quality. Injuries had robbed them of Ruben Dias, John Stones and Kyle Walker, leaving them with a makeshift backline which West Ham succeeded in exploiting, but their response was immediate after the break as Jack Grealish pulled one back before Vladimir Coufal’s own goal brought them level. They walked off the pitch at the end of it all in deflated mood despite their efforts, Riyad Mahrez’s botched penalty making the draw feel more like a missed opportunity than a creditable comeback. But the point may yet prove crucial in the title chase and it keeps their destiny in their own hands ahead of their final game. City could have crumbled. Instead, they showed powers of recovery in difficult circumstances. It may make all the difference. Meanwhile, Tottenham defeated Burnley 1-0 to leapfrog Arsenal in the battle for fourth place and set the fans dreaming, while Crystal Palace held Aston Villa to a 1-1 draw. Leeds could only manage a 1-1 draw with Brighton, the same with Wolves, who held Norwich to another one all stalemate, but the biggest winners of the day were Leicester City, who thrashed Watford 5-1.