A pressure group, Pan Nigeria Presidency of Igbo Extraction Coalition (PANPIEC), has declared that Igbo won’t complain if Nyesom Wike, the Governor of Rivers State; Rotimi Amaechi, former governor of the state or Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, emerges president in the 2023 general election. The Executive Secretary of the group, Chuks Ibegbu, and its Special Envoy, Jerry Amukwu,  disclosed this while addressing journalists in Enugu yesterday. Ibegbu, a former spokesman of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, restated that it was the turn of Ndigbo to produce president in 2023. He explained that they are seeking for president of Igbo extraction because there are Igbo in other regions. He faulted the actions of some governors, who, instead of listening to agitations of the people for president of Igbo extraction, have decided to sit on the fence. Ibegbu expressed optimism that Igbo president in 2023 would address the issues that are fueling the agitations by pro Biafran groups.
On the allegation that an Igbo president will lead to the division of Nigeria, he said the development would, instead, strengthen the unity of the country, noting that the Igbo have properties in every part of Nigeria. “We are all aware of the unfolding political dynamics in Nigeria. In the next few weeks, the political parties will hold their primaries to elect the candidates for various political positions. “The mood of the nation, today, is for an Igbo to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. This will lead to political equity, unity and peace of the country. Any nation that desires peace and stability will ensure political inclusiveness.  Nigeria should come to terms with this fact. “We shall not rest on our oars until the objective is achieved. Our officers in the North, West and Niger Delta are working round the clock to achieve this objective. “We call on all the political parties in Nigeria and, especially, the party delegates to go to the primaries and vote for justice, equity and fair play. Vote for the survival of Nigeria. “The people of the South East have legitimate right to insist that the Presidency in 2023 be zoned to the region since they are the only zone that have not produced the president,” he said. 