To find an expert on decentralized finance, you typically need to search for someone who has experience in that field and will know the ins and outs. However, as the internet grows, so does the number of experts available at your fingertips. But with so many different experts on decentralized finance, it can often be difficult finding one that meets your needs. In addition, with the growing fear of hacks and exploits on the blockchain, investors and developers alike find ways of being wary of protecting their assets and projects. And as blockchain technology evolves, so will how developers can protect their investments. One company that has proven itself as one to watch is Algorand, a highly-anticipated chain with a potential use case on blockchain technology. They aim toward mass adoption and have tapped just the right network to make that happen. They partnered with Flare networks to provide a critical layer of protection over their protocol. Investors were not precisely knocking at his door when he graduated from university with an Economics degree with a passion for technology, finance, and blockchain. This was until the crypto market went through a downturn, in which he joined a venture capital firm and worked as an analyst there. During this time, he noticed the growth of this industry and learned more about it, and he exclusively focused on crypto-economics and token design. In 2022, before joining Algorand, he also worked as a grants manager at Tezos, growing the fund by a substantial amount. Today he works as the head of Algorand’s DeFi vertical, which has increased from 30 million USD to 100 million USD. His primary role at Algorand is to grow the Algorand ecosystem, which he believes is his main contribution to the growth of DeFi. Daniel also plans to work on helping the masses make better financial decisions and explain the future of finance to people in an understandable way. Oon has proven himself as an exceptional expert in decentralized finance. He understands that fiat currencies are highly volatile and recommends going with cryptocurrencies. His goal is to make the world a more transparent, safer, and decentralized place we all live in. His advice to newcomers in the industry is to recognize that blockchain is a new technology and a learning curve is involved. He compares its movement with a wave, a peak, and a trough created. Therefore, it is crucial to keep up with the growth of blockchain to understand the energy cycle and momentum of its development. Daniel Oon has worked in several crypto ventures, and it is evident from his work that he has an extensive experience in finance. He has played a vital role in the growth of this industry and would like to continue doing so by furthering his work as part of the DeFi vertical.