The electoral committees from the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the conduct of the State House of Assembly (SHOA) and Federal House of Representatives (FHORs) primary elections in Enugu State have expressed satisfaction with the exercises, describing them as peaceful, transparent and orderly. The two electoral committees, which gave their separate verdicts when they supervised the conduct of the primaries in the state, yesterday, commended the Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi-led leadership of the PDP in Enugu for galvanising the delegates in displaying utmost commitment, discipline and comportment during the peaceful exercises. Speaking at Udenu Local Council, where Solomon Onah was unanimously elected as the party’s candidate for Udenu Constituency in the state House of Assembly, the Chairman of PDP National Electoral Committee,  Uche Igbokwe, lauded the electoral process of the primary election, expressing delight at the presence of the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the event. In Nsukka Local council, where the primary elections for Nsukka East and Nsukka West constituencies were conducted, Igbokwe, on behalf of other members of the electoral committee, also commended the peaceful conduct of the exercise. Led to the venue of the primary election by the state Deputy Chairman of the PDP, Innocent Ezeoha, and the state Organising Secretary, Dr. Christian Iyiani, the committee applauded the delegates for their sincerity of purpose and decorum, expressing satisfaction with the electoral processes put in place by the State Working Committee of the party. In Enugu East Local council, the SHOA primary election committee pointed out that everything went on peacefully. He said: “We have gone to several Local councils and we have seen that everything is going on perfectly in Enugu.” They appreciated Ugwuanyi for his leadership role in Enugu in particular and the PDP South East zone in general, revealing that the governor is the one that has kept state chapters of the party in the zone going. Supervising the Federal House of Representatives primary elections in Enugu, the National Electoral Committee, led by Aminu Koko, equally described the exercise in the state as peaceful, transparent and credible, maintaining that they were satisfied with the electoral process and cordial atmosphere.