• Akwa Ibom closes Uyo Stadium ahead CAF Champions League final 
Super Eagles Goalkeepers’ Trainer, Ike Shorunmu, is currently monitoring the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) for quality goalkeepers, whom he intends to groom for the national team.   Shorunmu told The Guardian, yesterday, that the process of selecting goalkeepers for international championships is a key focus for the Super Eagles coaches, who want to create healthy competition that would bring out the best in them. The ex-Super Eagles goalkeeper pledged that his selection process would be devoid of sentiment, adding, “I am currently focused on the league to select good keepers that will fight for shirts ahead of the forthcoming African Nations Championship (CHAN). “My mission is to ensure Nigeria’s CHAN Eagles have quality goalkeepers that will give good account of themselves in the team. While we wait for the CAF draws, I want to ensure that the goalkeeping department is taken care of,” he said. On CAF’s decision to play the final game of this year’s Champions League final in Uyo, Shorunmu said the hosting right would be a good advertisement for Nigerian football and could also attract sponsors to the Nigeria league. “Hosting the CAF Champions League final will put Nigeria in the World map. All eyes will be on Nigeria on the final day, which might wake up some corporate bodies or well-meaning individuals to invest in the league. “The hosting will also make the world view Nigeria as still a top country in African football even if the country’s teams are not playing in the final of the Champions League.” CAF recently confirmed that the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo, will host the 2022 Champions League on Friday, May 20, 2022. Senior Special Assistant on Sports to Akwa Ibom State Governor, Paul Bassey, disclosed this. Bassey hinted that FIFA Pitch Consultant, Jorge Manuel Palmacuder, has arrived in Uyo to supervise the perfection of the pitch and training ground of the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, also known as Nest of Champions. Bassey, who doubles as chairman of Akwa United, said with the development, the stadium would be closed to all activities till after the Champions League final. 