The United Nations (UN) has recognized a project carried out by the Women in Technology in Nigeria (WITIN) titled: ‘WomenPRIDE.Africa.’ WomenPRIDE.Africa emerged WSIS Prize 2022 runner-up. Out of 966 submitted projects, 360 were nominated for the online voting. More than 1.3 million votes were casted and WITIN’s Project – WomenPRIDE.Africa was among the top five most voted in Category 11 AL C7 E-employment.
   
The WSIS Prizes 2022 is an international recognition of WSIS stakeholders as winners and champions for their excellence in supporting the implementation of WSIS outcomes, in particular the action lines supporting achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
   
It was developed in response to requests from the WSIS stakeholders to create an effective mechanism to evaluate projects and activities that leverage the power of information and communication technologies (ICTs) to advance sustainable development. Since inception, the contest of WSIS Prizes has attracted hundreds of thousands of stakeholders.  “Out of 966 submitted projects, 360 were nominated for the Online Voting, following a comprehensive review by the Expert Group. We have reviewed more than 1.3 million votes cast and your project was among the top five most voted in your category. We would like to congratulate you on this amazing achievement and to invite you to promote this global recognition.
  
“Continuing with the last years’ much appreciated practice by the WSIS community, we are pleased to recognize the efforts and great work of WSIS Prizes 2022 runner-ups as WSIS Prizes 2022 Champions during the final week of the WSIS Forum 2022 (May 30 to June 3) and beyond. We will soon be sharing more detailed information about the program and proposals for your participation and promotion.”  Alade, who said WomenPride.Africa is an acronym for (Women and Girls, Pivoting, Resilience, In the Digital Economy in Africa), disclosed that it was a COVID-response and an initiative of WITIN, which equips women and girls to thrive in the digital economy via three pivotal pillars, which are in-demand digital skills training; urban-rural partnerships and empowerment; and meaningful access and adoption advocacy.
    
She said it is a five-year action plan (2020 – 2025) in partnership with the International Telecommunications Union Girls in ICT and Partner2Connect coalition  aimed at socio-economically empowering 100,000  women and girls in Nigeria and Africa at large.
    
The WITIN Founder said the organisation organises series of hybrid workshops for girls in May and June 2022, in line with the ITU approved toolkit for celebration of Girls in ICT 2022 events.
   
Highlights of WITIN Girls in ICT 2022 events include: talks, virtual mentoring, digital skills training, careers in tech, meet a woman in tech.  She hinted that registration can be done on wit.ng/gict, stressing that WITIN has been marking this event since 2012.