The Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has stated that the introduction of its Domestic Export Warehouse (DEW) will address the high level of rejection of non-oil exports at the global market. The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Ezra Yakusah, explained that the initiative, when it finally comes on stream, would not only address the high level of rejection of Nigerian commodities in foreign markets, but would also ease logistics constraints experienced by non-oil exporters. The NEPC Chief Executive Officer at a one-day national sensitisation programme on DEW tagged “Full operationalisation and effective patronage of approved DEW in Lagos, said the programme would also reduce the number of checks along the export corridor from the hinterland to port of shipment. “Besides, it would assist in tracking cargoes and ensure transparency in the logistics value chain,” he added. According to him, the export business is the bedrock of every developing country, but has been faced with myriads of challenges hampering the growth of export business. He added: “In order to bridge this gap, the Council in its determined efforts took the bold step to initiate the concept and set up of Domestic Export Warehouse (DEW) as one of the solutions to ease supply chain constraint in Nigeria. The overall objective of this event is to launch the process of operationalising the DEW scheme in line with NAP 7.0 as directed by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). “It also marks the beginning of a DEW national sensitisation campaign which is expected to give nationwide publicity geared at ensuring optimal utilisation of the facilities as well as provide a platform for the export regulatory and facilitating agencies to interface with the exporting community.” He said as part of efforts to ensure the effectiveness of the DEW, a dedicated logo was developed to ease identification, and ensure visibility; also technology will also be deployed to enhance operational efficiency toward achieving sustainability as well as reduce human interface. “It is hoped that the inter-agency synergy displayed in the implementation will provide a platform for eventual sustainability of the DEW. The Council in collaboration with its inter-agency partners had after a tedious and rigorous selection process, licensed and approved nine DEW operators across the country, while more have been inspected by the technical committee to ascertain their suitability,” he averred. Also speaking, the Deputy Director, Stakeholder Services, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Celestine Akujobi, commended the efforts of the council, saying that both agencies have been working harmoniously to boost Nigeria’s non-oil export trade. He noted that if non-oil exporters are encouraged, the sector would create wealth and job opportunities for the nation while also boosting Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).