Even before the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holds its crucial National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting next Tuesday, indicators have emerged that the party is actually on trial in South East geopolitical zone.  Few days to the three-man delegate election, the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP bowed to the court’s decision and reinstated Onu as the state chairman. However, in the process of trying to conduct the three-man delegate selection, which process had been underway, some governorship aspirants who had made arrangements with Okorie, tried to hijack the process from the new state chairman leading to chaos.
   
Announcing the cancellation of the exercise, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Debo Ologunagba, said the NWC’s attention “has been drawn to reports of a purported conduct of 3-man Ad-Hoc Delegate Congress in Ebonyi State today, Wednesday, April 4, 2022.  Ebeano Tangle
IT would be recalled that in the build up to the Local Council poll, at every campaign stopover, former governor Chimaroke Nnamani continued to remind members that Governor Ugwuanyi is the leader of the Ebeano family, stressing that “Ebeano for Gburugburu means that everybody’s interest is protected.”
   
But, against the background of struggle by five prominent governorship aspirants, including Dr. Peter Mbah, Prof. Barth Nnaji, Sir Chinyeaka Oha, Evarest Nnaji (Odengene) and Hon. Chijioke Jonathan Edeoga, for PDP governorship ticket, concerns are high how the Ebeano grouping would vote during the primaries.
   
Senator Ekweremadu, the only aspirant from Enugu West Senatorial District, though also from the Ebeano family, seems to be swimming against the tide, because the governorship has been zoned to Enugu East Senatorial District.
  
Of the five contenders, only Dr. Mbah, the MD of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited, is a bonafide Ebeano. That may explain why many delegates are already singing that, “on this Rock, we shall continue to build Enugu State.”
    
The fact that both Senator Nnamani and Mrs Ifeoma Nwobodo are from same Nkanu West as Chinyeaka Ohaa and Odengene, how the delegates balances those political interests would be seen, depending on how Ugwuanyi’s mind is working.
   
Would Governor Ugwuanyi stop Senator Nnamani to empower the former Chief of Staff to former Governor Sullivan Chime? How that could affect the voting preferences of Nkanu people, especially given Nnamani’s popularity among voters could influence the main election. Mrs, Nwobodo, though married into Nkanu West, is from Enugu West Senatorial zone. 