Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun and his deputy, Bendict Alabi, have felicitated Muslim faithful in the state and across the globe on the conclusion of the 2022 Ramadan fasting. Oyetola, in a sallah greetings issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on Monday in Osogbo, prayed Allah to accept all acts of worship and supplications of the Muslim faithful during the holy month. While wishing the faithful a blessed and peaceful Eid-el-fitr celebrations, the governor admonished them not to forget the significance of Ramadan and should carry on with its numerous lessons and virtues. Oyetola said: “On behalf of my family and the government of Osun, I send my warmest good wishes to all Muslims in our state and indeed across the world as we celebrate Eid-el-fitr. “May we all enjoy a blessed and peaceful Eid celebration. It is my prayer that Allah bless us with the opportunity to witness many more of it in sound health. “I also pray Allah will accept all our ibadaah (acts of worship) and supplications in the month of Ramadan. “I enjoin us not to forget the significance of the holy and spiritually rejuvenating month and carry on with its numerous lessons and virtues that it has come to teach and remind us. “Let us continue to demonstrate the lessons of Ramadan in our daily activities and dealings with others. “As we celebrate the Eid with our family and loved ones, let us remember to extend love and compassion to the needy and less privileged in the society. “As we give with humility, Allah will reward us and multiply in abundance whatever we spend in charity.” The governor also urged Muslim in Osun and indeed all people of the state to take advantage of the important celebration to offer prayers for the peace, stability, progress and development of the state, especially as it prepares for the 2023 elections. Similarly, the deputy governor congratulated Muslims on the completion of the holy Ramadan fasting and urged them to sustain the tempo of spiritual purity. Alabi, in a statement by his Press Secretary, Olaniyi Ajibola, said the holy month of fasting and celebration of the first three days of Shawwal presented a precious moment for incessant supplication to God over the array of national challenges. The deputy governor noted that the special moment also reminded Muslim and others of the need for self discipline and moderation as a way of strengthening relationship with God and seeking for His favour. He said: “As we celebrate the end of the holy month of Ramadan, this is also a special moment for our Muslim brothers and sisters to intercede for our nation and make supplication to God for the good of all. 