1xBet is a renowned bookmaker that focuses on offering the best conditions to its customers in  Nigeria. And since new beginnings are very important, 1xBet prepared a very special welcome bonus for all its customers that didn’t make their first deposit just yet! In other words, they took the original welcome offer and boosted it for even more excitement and fun! What’s the Bonus? If you’re already curious to find out more about this great welcome bonus prepared by 1xBet, you’ll be excited to learn that it’s a 300% reward! There’s no typo and you did not read that wrong. A three hundred percent bonus is what you will get for your first deposit at 1xBet!  You become eligible for the 300% bonus with a minimum deposit of 400 NGN and the maximum value of the amount received from this reward is 145600 NGN. So, make sure to take full advantage of this unique offer and get as more as possible with this huge welcome bonus! How to Claim the Bonus? Claiming the 300% first deposit bonus at 1xBet is a straightforward action. You just need to register an account with the bookmaker. Also, in case you’re already a member but didn’t make the first deposit yet, you’re eligible for the offer as well! Make sure to fill all the fields with personal data and activate your phone number in “My Account” or during registration. Also, check the “Take part in bonus promotions” box so you can enjoy this amazing bonus. Next, pick your favorite deposit method and add funds to your account. The bonus is automatically credited once the deposit is done and you can start enjoying the massive balance to support your favourites! Don’t Miss the Opportunity to Play with a Huge Bonus  Use this huge bonus to quadruple your total balance and place multiple bets to support your favourites. Enjoy the high odds, diverse betting markets and detailed statistics offered by 1xBet to have an excellent experience.  Cheer for your favorite teams and athletes while enjoying this fantastic offer at 1xBet and you can be the next big winner! Join 1xBet and make your first deposit to boost your balance and start playing to win!