The family of 12-month-old Muhammed Rufai Aisha, is seeking N7 million for open-heart surgery in India. Aisha, who hails from Kwara State, was diagnosed with severe mitral and aortic regurgitation at two months, a condition of hole in the heart and a blocked passage within the chambers of the heart. Her deteriorating medical condition is currently being managed at the Children Specialist Hospital, Igbolo, Ilorin. In the echocardiographic report seen by The Guardian, Aisha has stretched Patent Foramen Ovale (PFO), restrictive Venticular Septal Defect (VSD) and Patent Ductus Arteriosus (PDA) and Tricuspid atresia, which means she is suffering from resistance of blood flow and a defect of the heart where the valve that controls blood flow from the right upper chamber of the heart to the right lower chamber of the heart doesn’t fucntion. According to the Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist, Dr. Issa A, “Aisha was first seen in our clinic at two months of life, on account of poor weight gain and breathing difficulties. She had a series of investigations including echocardiography. It showed holes in the heart and a blocked passage within the chambers of the heart.  The child will require open heart surgery to live a near-normal life. The surgery is estimated to cost N7 including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) care.” Her father, Mr. Issah Rufai, told The Guardian that they had noticed her breathing problem when she was six weeks, appealing to well meaning Nigerians, kindhearted individuals, non-governmental organisations, corporate organisations, and religious bodies to raise N7 million for the open heart surgery. He said: “We noticed the problem when she was six weeks old. We discovered her breathing was not normal, so we took her to the hospital, where we did some tests and discovered she had hole in the heart. They said one of what passes blood to her heart has been blocked. Currently we have raised N300, 000 and we are appealing to everyone to help us save her life.” Donations could be sent to his account.  Name: Issah Rufai, account number: 2460513885, Zenith bank or call 08067869399, 08167783966.