   Quacks, according to CPN, are those practicing the profession without adequate qualification from the body. Speaking at a virtual meeting to announce the forthcoming Information Technology (IT) Professionals’ Assembly/yearly general meeting (AGM), scheduled for May 18 and 19, at the NAF Conference Centre, Kado, Abuja, the President/Chairman of Council, CPN, Kola Jagun, said the body was ready to remove quacks from the profession. “We will soon start enforcing an Act that will ensure that only those who are qualified are the ones practicing the profession,” he stated. Jagun, who decried some encroachment activities on the activities of CPN by some establishments including the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), forensic institute, among others, also hinted that there are moves at the background to ensure that some of the activities are stopped going forward. He disclosed that CPN is working with the Federal Ministry of Education to improve technical education in the sector. On the forthcoming IT Assembly, which is the 16th edition and with the theme: “Leveraging IT for National Security and Economic Stability,” Jagun said: “Information technology plays a significant role in the security and economic stability of any country and Nigeria is no different. Information Technology will continue to strengthen national security against future upcoming threats and cyber-attacks. Information technology can help countries to identify potential threats, share information easily, and protect mechanisms in them.” “Information Technology (IT) has changed our way of life considerably. IT has shaped substantially the mode of peoples’ interaction, business process, entertainment and learning. “There is no gainsaying that IT is encouraging globalisation and exchange of information. The benefits of using these technologies are immense and they are here to stay. In the context of globalization and further economic integration in recent decades, the relationship between the economy and national security has become increasingly interlinked.” Speaking specifically on the theme, Jagun said, “National security is important not only to the government, but to the nation as a whole. IT deals with the use of electronic computers and computer software to convert, store, protect, process, transmit, and securely retrieve information. Today, the term information has ballooned to encompass many aspects of computing and technology, and the term has become very recognizable. “Specifically, IT will help enable the nation to identify potential threats, share information more readily.” Meanwhile, the 2022 CPN IT Professionals’ Assembly shall be considering, among other things, the relationships and the interplays, and how Information Technology (IT) could be leveraged for improved national security and economic stability. “From the deliberations, the Assembly will come up with findings and recommendations that will be geared towards deploying advanced technologies through effective partnerships that promote economic, technological, and national security competitiveness.” He also emphasized the need for practitioners to regularize their activities by registering with CPN.