Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has alleged the Federal Government (FG) is sponsoring fake news against it. A statement issued by Emma Powerful, IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, stressed, “the haste with which FG celebrated the said fake news, commending the United Kingdom (UK) government for imaginary but non-existent prescription, only confirmed that the Muhammadu Buhari led FG is behind the fake news.” The statement reads: “We are IPOB movement worldwide, ably led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. Our attention has been drawn to the inaccurate and fake news purporting that the UK government has classified IPOB as a terrorist organisation. “We, therefore, wish to clarify that there is no iota of truth in the said malicious fake news, being peddled by the enemies of Biafra’s freedom and independence. Nothing more may be said than the clarification already given by the British High Commission in Abuja, to the effect that the said media report is untrue and should be disregarded. “The curiosity and childish haste with which the Nigerian government celebrated the said fake news, commending the UK government for the imaginary but non-existent prescription, only confirmed that the Muhammadu Buhari led FG is behind the fake news.” “We are calling on the British government to change their minds about continuing to humiliate Biafra. “Maybe the FG easily forgets that UK is not Nigeria, where there is no rule of law and due process. NIGERIA unilaterally proscribed IPOB and designated IPOB terror organization, while freeing and compensating Fulani bandits, the real mass murderers. What hypocrisy. “Nigeria’s government has been sponsoring insecurity and banditry in Biafra land and continues linking it with IPOB in its desperation to demonise the organisation and Eastern Security Network (ESN) operatives and present us as a terrorist organisation that we are not. Nigeria kills its own citizens, like the recent case in Imo State where an Army couple was beheaded after the woman was, allegedly, raped. This is all in a bid to demonise IPOB and justify the likely military invasion of our land.” “FG should hide its face in shame for sponsoring a failed international propaganda against IPOB. They are using hoodlums to sponsor violence in our land to create the impression that our leader is leading a criminal organization, but they will keep failing. “IPOB has been existing long before those criminals trying to blackmail the good work of IPOB in London for a long time. Nigerian media must be objective in their reportage and ensure they investigate news before feeding the public false information. We commend the objective media platforms and enjoin others to emulate them and resist any attempt by FG to be used as a propaganda tool. IPOB is a peaceful and non-violent movement seeking to free indigenous Nigerians from the bondage Fulani has put every tribe in Nigeria. 