Ikeobasi Mokelu, has picked the All Progressives Congress’s (APC) Expression of Interest and Nomination forms to contest the presidential primary election. Mokelu was a former Minister of Information and Culture in the military administration of late Gen. Sani Abacha. A member of the campaign organisation, Timothy Amah, confirmed the development and boasted that Ikeobasi Mokelu will emerge the party’s candidate during the primaries because of his experience. According to him, Mokelu’s presidency will apply the values of honour, character, and integrity in the application of efficient and sustainable governance at all levels of government and in the three arms of government. Mokelu is the 28th aspirant to purchase the APC 2023 presidential Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the cost of N100 million. The aspirant had earlier said that he was joining the 2023 presidential race after due consultations. He was convinced that he was qualified to take on the challenge of moving the country to the next phase of her development. “I have a rich political and polity pedigree. I was born and mentored by two great nationalists and independence fighters,” he said. “My belief in the enduring legacy of our forefathers led me to develop and encourage the crafting of various elements of what is today, the 1999 Constitution. “It is on record that during my short tenure in office as Minister of Information and Culture, I fostered one of the best relationships with the media and civil society, even at the risk of losing my job,” Mokelu had said. Popularly called Onwa, Mokelu was the founder and convener of #IstandwithBuhari, an APC movement established in all the 774 Local Government Areas of the country. Mokelu was a delegate to the National Constitutional Conference between 1994 and 1995, where he served as chairman of several subcommittees, including security, power-sharing, and social welfare among others. He was also the initiator of Handshake Across Nigeria and Movement for Brotherliness Across Nigeria. The APC special presidential primary convention is scheduled to hold from May 30 to June 1. Mokelu join other aspirants in the APC 2023 presidential race including: Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Sen. Rochas Okorocha, immediate past Imo governor, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation and Gov. Yahaya Bello. Others are Dr Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Productivity, Sen. Ken Nnamani, Mr Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, the Minister of State for Education, Gov. David Umuahi of Ebonyi state Also in the race are: Mr Adams Oshiomhole, a former APC National Chairman, Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun (APC-Ogun Central) and former two-term governor of Ogun, Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources and Pastor Tunde Bakare. Godwin Emefiele, CBN Governor; Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology and Ms Uju Ohanenye, a female aspirant are also in the race among others. 