Sir: It is always strange when those whom everyone expects to know about critical issues make pronouncements that run contrary to people’s expectations. How on earth a legal luminary would suggest supplanting a legally constituted government with an illegal one is utterly difficult to understand. If the suggestion is being made due to the general disenchantment with the present regime, the normal procedure should be to urge the national assembly to be up to its game by monitoring the activities of the executive and kicking against any step that contravenes the constitution. This is what is expected of learned elders. Besides, if a legally elected regime is condemned for low performance, how far can an interim government go? What did the last caricature interim government achieve before it was booted out unceremoniously? From every indication, most people who live in Nigeria have not taken enough time to understudy what may work in Nigeria and what may never. Asking for an interim government is not different from clamouring for state police in a country where governors behave like emperors with limitless power. With interim government, when will those involved in such government be ready to leave when everybody knows quite well our deep propensity at wasting time and resources? And with the recommendation that such an interim government should include all past heads of state, the argument is made even more preposterous. Nigerians have often watched with dismay how those in the parliament only go there to sleep because of their old age. If anyone is now calling such people to redirect Nigeria’s movement, is that not tantamount to embarking on a wild goose chase? When an interim government is set up at the center, what happens to the states, or the state will retain their governors and take orders from a body not deriving its power from the constitution? So many questions begging for answers. Nigerians should learn to be patient and allow the process to take its course and learn from its mistakes. Ultimately, the nation will, sooner or later, find its feet and achieve its desired goals. • Jide Oyewusi, the coordinator of Ethics Watch International wrote from Lagos 