The Special Adviser to Governor Seyi Makinde on Inter-Party Affairs, Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha, has berated some members of the party who recently defected to All Progressives Congress (APC), New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP) and the Social Democratic Party (SDP). In a statement yesterday, Mustapha described such act as ungrateful to PDP that gave them political reckoning. The former party chairman said the defectors took the decision to decamp without thinking of the outcome of their decisions, as according to him, they will regret their actions because PDP will emerge victorious in 2023 elections. Mustapha, who was referring to the likes of Senator Kola Balogun, Alhaja Mulikat Adeola-Akande and other PDP members that recently defected to other parties, said there was no party in the world without internal wrangling, but there was need for resolution within the party, which the defectors did not allow to work. He said: “Politicians decamping to other parties from the PDP in Oyo State cannot be helped by those parties when the time comes. “In the 2019 elections, people tried it by decamping to ADP but failed woefully. Let’s forget all grudges and grievances. We need to join hands with the performing governor, Seyi Makinde, to move Oyo State forward and vote PDP back to government in Oyo State and also take over government from the gasping APC through our massive votes for PDP in 2023 general elections. “These members decamping from PDP in Oyo State are not concerned with the overall development going on in the state but in their own selfish interest. It is interesting to note that these are the people who have benefited immensely from the PDP by being voted or appointed into various political offices in the last three administrations but now think the best thing they can do is to destroy the party for the incoming aspirants into various offices in the coming general elections.” Also, while reacting to a recent issue concerning some elected local council councillors in the state, who were rumored to be complaining about their welfare, Mustapha said the issue was the handiwork of opposition figures in the state. He, therefore, enjoined the councillors and other office holders in the council to channel their grievances to the right quarters if there is any, so as not to allow opposition elements to intrude into their affairs.