• CUPP calls for arrest of officials responsible for missing result sheets The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has, again, invalidated the outcome of the local council and national delegate congresses conducted by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State, over alleged malpractices and substantial violation of extant laws. This was as the election umpire insisted that only statutory delegates, as provided in the constitution of the party, should be used in all the party’s primaries in the state. In a letter dated May 17, 2022, the INEC’s Acting Secretary, Mr. Aminu Idris, said: “The commission’s monitoring report on the one-man ad hoc national delegates congress in Imo has also indicated substantial non-compliance, as no original local council congress result form was provided at any of the council congress venues. He concluded that the commission expects the party’s primaries in Imo to be conducted using only statutory delegates as provided for in the constitution of the PDP.” Reacting to the development, Imo PDP leadership, stakeholders and some of the chieftains of the party, insisted that any attempt, capable of jeopardising the effort and commitment of the party to ensure credible, free and fair primaries, would be resisted, in the best interest of the party and members. ALSO, spokesperson of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) and House of Representatives hopeful for Ideato North and South Federal Constituency, Ikenga Ugochinyere, blamed the development on the alleged desperation of few top party leaders. He also called on the national leadership of the party to order the immediate arrest and investigation of the electoral officers responsible for the missing results sheets for the conduct of wards’ three-man delegates congress and council one-man national delegates congress. He said: “The decision by INEC was painful for the party; but, in line with extant laws, it appears that is the only option for the party, in view of the desperate circumstances. “The situation was a bag of mixed blessings as Imo PDP members can now sleep with both eyes closed, because the desperate efforts to foist a fake delegates list on them is over and the party can now begin its rebuilding process.” 