 Overlooking Dubai Creek, the vibrant city hotel, Jumeirah (www.Jumeirah.com) Creekside Hotel welcomes the guests from around the globe to enjoy a relaxing time as they pursue their business visits or spend their holidays.  Jumeirah Creekside Hotel brings together the guests’ needs at one place. The hotel is situated in the heart of Dubai where it is located 2km from Dubai International Airport, and just minutes away from some of the city’s most notable landmarks and shopping areas, making it an enticing place for those who wish to experience the contemporary lifestyle in Dubai and discover the attractions across the city. The hotel allows guests to check-in at any time of the day or night and stay for 24-hour interval upon availability. Recognizing the importance of the food & beverages offerings to the guests and the travellers, the hotel is home to four different restaurants, bars and lounges featuring a wide range of cuisines. The hotel’s signature restaurants includes Nomad (International cuisine), Cu-Ba (Contemporary Latin), Plumeria (Gym café with healthy options) and, The Kosher Place (Kosher cuisine). Additionally, the city hotel is also home to one of the city’s largest art collections. With the aim of connecting guests to the culture and heritage of their surroundings, Jumeirah Creekside Hotel shines a spotlight on the region’s vibrant art scene, housing 482 specially commissioned pieces by 51 artists with roots from across the Middle East. Building on its reputation as an art hub, the hotel further features some of the world’s most celebrated design houses across its grounds, including custom-made furniture by Sawaya Moroni, Walter Knoll, Poltrona Frau, BnB Italia, Frag, Se London, Matteograssi and De Sede. Most impressively, Tom Price, an internationally recognised creator renowned for his sculptural works, was commissioned to create 88 red Meltdown Bowls, which are dotted across the hotel as part of a limited-edition collection. For more information and for reservations please visit https://bit.ly/3t7uzbp or email jchinfo@jumeirah.com. In the meantime, stay connected via our social media channels and don’t forget to tag us in your posts #TasteofJumeirah #TimeExceptionallyWellSpent. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Jumeirah Group. For more information, please contact: 
Hemashi Fernando | Marketing Executive
Jumeirah Creekside Hotel | lizette.guiwan@jumeirah.com Instagram:
@jumeirahcreeksidehotel About Jumeirah Group:
Jumeirah Group, a member of Dubai Holding and a global luxury hotel company, operates a world-class 6,500+-key portfolio of 24 luxury properties across the Middle East, Europe and Asia. The group boasts some of the most prestigious and captivating properties in the world, from the iconic flagship hotel and timeless pinnacle of luxury, Burj Al Arab Jumeirah, and lavish Arabian palaces across Dubai’s Madinat Jumeirah, to its contemporary Maldivian island paradise at Olhahali Island and art-inspired dolce vita on the island of Capri. Whether a modern twist on a British classic in the heart of Belgravia at The Carlton Tower Jumeirah, or a futuristic setting at Jumeirah Nanjing, Jumeirah’s name is synonymous with service excellence, crafting exceptional experiences for everyone who walks through its doors. Beyond its properties and resorts, Jumeirah Group is also dedicated to destination dining experiences, combining the most authentic and diverse cuisines with spectacular settings to create those unforgettable moments worth sharing. With over 85 restaurants across its portfolio, Jumeirah Group’s award-winning homegrown concepts including Sal, KAYTO, Shimmers and French Riviera, enjoy an enviable reputation for culinary excellence alongside the group’s Michelin stared Shang High and L’Olivo restaurants. www.Jumeirah.com