The Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP has described the judgment delivered by Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court, Abuja refusing the bail application filed by counsel to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu as sad, unfair, and a lost opportunity to finding a solution to issues of agitation in the South East region. Justice Nyako, in her ruling, held that she would not grant bail to Kanu, who is standing treasonable charges brought against him by the Federal Government, because the circumstances of his jumping bail when he was first granted bail were unclear. Speaking to newsmen in Owerri on Wednesday the CUPP spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere Ikeagwuonu, said the judge did not take into consideration the circumstances under which Nnamdi Kanu fled the country. He added that it was equally ridiculous that the Federal Government could file additional charges against Kanu and even added the same charges against his lawyers. Ikeagwuonu, who is also aspiring for a House of Representatives seat for Ideato North and South Federal Constituency, also blamed the continued detention of Kanu on the inability of President Muhammadu Buhari to exercise his constitutional power over the issue. “I think it is a very sad development seeing the judgment overruling the bail application of Nnamdi Kanu,” Ikeagwuonu. “By that judgment, we lost a great opportunity to kick start a political process that will help in amicable resolution of the issue. “It is so painful that apart from the issue of bail, one had expected the President to attach urgency to the resolution of this issue. The issues that led to this agitation were deep-rooted in injustice and unfair treatment. “Nobody is happy with what is happening in South East today. It will be in the national interest if the president can just issue a nolli prosequi so that we can release this man and just put him somewhere even if in a house so that we can stop all these destructions going on in the South East. “If the president can pardon those who stole our money, as we saw in Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyako, granted pardon to Niger Delta militants and even rehabilitated them; granted amnesty to some Boko Haram elements, some of who absolved in the military and police, I don’t see why he can not order the release of Nnamdi Kanu to demonstrate good faith and his interest in seeing that peace returns to the country. “I am equally shocked that the judge said she did not know the circumstances under which Nnamdi Kanu jumped bail. We all knew that Nnamdi Kanu did not jump bail. He was jn his house receiving visitors when soldiers invaded his home and this was well reported and documented. So it’s ridiculous to say that she failed to understand the circumstances under which Kanu jumped bail.” 