The Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria’s (PETAN) 2022 edition of the yearly Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) was a shadow of itself as all top industry officials including the operators, regulators, government functionaries and members of the National Assembly in committees relevant to the event, among others were conspicuously absent.
   
Some participants who frowned at the development attributed absence of industry bigwigs to poor planning by the current leadership of PETAN. To them, this year’s PETAN OTC is the worst ever.
 
“If not that the association has some members who are notable industry players, this year’s OTC would have been absolute disaster”, one of the participants said, adding that, “the glamour and knowledge-based information and policy statements from government’s representatives were completely lacking.  However, this year, none of them came nor sent representatives.
 
Also, conspicuously missing were most of the panelists, which included Managing Directors s of the International Oil Companies (IOCs).
   
It was only the Managing Director of TotalEnergies, Mr. Mike Sangster that sent a representative while Chevron Nigeria Chairman/MD, Rick Kennedy was also present.
 
Also absent was the chief upstream regulator of the industry, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), Gbenga Komolafe.
   
Some of the participants attributed the absence of these industry chiefs to poor organization by the current leadership of PETAN as that has never happened in the past.
   
The participants noted that the level of awareness created by PETAN was poor, saying most of the regulators that ought to have interacted with operators to know their challenges and how best to address same were absent.
   
A participant who simply identified himself as Dr Idris Salimon said this is the worst OTC put by PETAN, saying the organization lacks the quality expected of an international event.
   
Another participant and industry stakeholder, Chinedu Ambrose, said having attended that last 10 editions of the event, the 2022 PETAN organized OTC falls far below pass mark.
   
He urged the organizers to ensure that subsequent ones are improved upon in order to give stakeholders value for attendance.