After the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, and the Governance Advisory Council (GAC) in Lagos State approved the second term bid of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, it seemed the coast was clear for his return to Alausa. Oluwo  Ambode himself had initially revved up the gubernatorial contest when he postured to be angling for the number one political office in the state. But subsequent events are suggesting that he (Ambode) might have decided to leave the challenge of dethroning Sanwo-Olu out of the office to his foot soldiers, despite the endorsement of Sanwo-Olu by members of the state APC’s GAC, which the new entrants see as imposition.
 
The emergence of the two aspirants has thrown up new permutations in the state’s formidable ruling party, which, according to a source, may put pressure on Sanwo-Olu. Widely regarded as the face of Ambode’s camp, Oluwo is generally regarded as a force for Sanwo-Olu to contend with if he is going to get his second-term ambition. Mustapha  When asked how intends to withstand the governor in terms of funding and delegates, Oluwo maintained that the will of the people is paramount. “I tell you something, this is a very serious business and the people are involved, God is involved. And the voice of the people is the voice of God. I tell you something; no power has ever been able to stop the people who yearn for change, freedom and their dignity. That is what this struggle is all about.”
 
On working with Lagos APC blueprint, Oluwo stated that when he gets the party’s ticket, he would work with the manifesto of the party, and within the expectation of the people to drive the development agenda of the 21st century.
 
“We are not going to be guided by any blueprint or master plan that is not in the public domain. Our blueprint will be in the public domain for the benefit of a diverse opinion and healthy criticism. No one is perfect and no one knows it all. However, I think the supposed blueprint that we hear of in Lagos State is a rumour, if it is not, let it be brought to the open. But, we stand by the party’s manifesto and we will not deviate from it.”
  
Oluwo added that he is not afraid to step on the toes of some leadership as long as he is doing what is right as a party man and in the interest of the people. “You say I will step on the toes of the leadership. I am not afraid to step on toes and you will see that in the last three weeks, I have been stepping on toes and I will continue to step on toes as long as I am stepping on toes in the interest of the people of Lagos State and it will continue. And then by the way, why would anybody think I am stepping on toes? Is it because I said the resources of Lagos should be given back to the true owners, is that the reason why I am stepping on toes?
  
“Or is it that I am sending the message that I want a state that works for all, not a few as we are seeing now. Is that the definition of stepping on toes? Or that Lagos is worth fighting for and the people of Lagos are worth dying for? That is a figurative expression, how does that constitute stepping on toes? So my advice is anybody that takes all these things I have said to be stepping on toes, let them take their toes out of the way because I must continue to go in the direction that people want me to go.”
   
Despite his aspiration, Oluwo said his relationship with party leaders is cordial, describing it as one party and family. “We are not fighting one another. We are just competing in an orderly and decent manner but we must make our messages to get out to the people, electioneering is beyond party leaders. It is beyond me, it is beyond anybody else, it is about the people of Lagos.  He said that if voted as governor, he would return the wealth of Lagos to the people, involve youths in governance, prepare them for a fast leadership transition, re-establish the status of Lagos as a reference point for free democratic practice and implement reforms in critical sectors for Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, revenues and jobs.  The governorship hopeful vowed that Lagosians would see a Lagos that works for everyone irrespective of party affiliation, religion, tribe and other differences.
  
Mustapha gave this promise, while speaking with newsmen on why he is interested in governing Lagos, saying he would bring his vast experience in both private and public sectors, which he garnered at home and abroad to bear. 