 E4luxury, aka Ayodele Donye Samson If you got nicknamed by a satisfied client who got blown away by the peak of your craftsmanship, it could be the most soothing thing in the world. Nigeria’s highly-rated jeweller, Ayodele Donye Samson, better known as E4luxury, and chief executive officer of E4luxury Jewellery and Watch, received the highest compliment of a customer to whom he delivered a piece of jewellery designed in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Explaining why he is referred to as Ice Cream Man on social media, where he regularly receives huge compliment and followership for his craft, E4luxury disclosed that an artiste who was way too contended with the customised jewellery he carved for him, likened the piece to the sweetened frozen food. “The Ice Cream Man is a nickname derived from a business trip to Dubai when I went to the UAE to deliver a custom jewel to an artist friend, who so loved the glittering piece and its assemblage that he jokingly described it fondly as ice cream,” he revealed. “In the prevailing atmosphere, my other companions that went with me for the delivery called me the Ice Cream Man and the name stuck. That was how the nickname came about.” The mass communication graduate is fast becoming an emerging global jeweller. E4luxury explained his foray into the venture despite not studying a business-related course in university. “I made up my mind to go into this business during my national service year. I did my extensive research and analysis and also weighed the result critically before deciding to give it a shot. And, of course, I ensured I attended professional training for the business,” pointed out E4luxury. A little more than five years after establishing the business, E4luxury Jewellery and Watch has become one of the main places for celebrities who cannot resist the quality of Samson’s artistry. “Celebrities associate with our brand because of the quality of products we offer and the class we stand for. They cannot afford to go for less as they consider cheap luxury stuff as demeaning to their status at home and abroad,” stated E4luxury. On his future plan for the business, he revealed that the ultimate master plan is to make it a family entity. “The major objective is expansion, broadening the territories of the business, upholding a good reputation, and building it into a formidable family business,” E4luxury avowed. 