The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) has added a tracking system for passport processing and issuance in the country. The Acting Comptroller General of the NIS, Isah Jere Idris, who announced this in a release, explained that the tracking system was put in place by the NIS to help applicants monitor the statuses of passport applications. He said the initiative was part of the agency’s efforts towards addressing the challenges identified with the passport issuance system in the country. He said the NIS is committed to sustaining the ongoing war against corruption in the system, and enthroning the regime of transparency and accountability. Idris said since the launch of the online appointment system by NIS, the allegations of corruption and harassment against his personnel had significantly reduced. He, however, appealed to Nigerians to always stop paying bribes to the agency’s personnel, saying “if there is no giver, there will be no collectors. “Like parcels sent through logistics companies or visa applications, we have introduced a tracking system so that people can stay in the comfort of their rooms and know the status of their passport applications. “You don’t need to offer anyone any kobo. All that you need to do is to log into our website on www.trackimmigration.gov.ng, upload the required details and see an immediate response on the status of your passports,” he stated. According to Idris, the new initiative is part of the efforts to phase out human interactions, saying the rowdiness and delay in the passport issuance would soon be a thing of the past. He said the best method to address the inadequacies identified with the production process is the deployment of technology, and pleaded with Nigerians to always apply for their passport before its expiration or “only when they need it.” He added that there are other measures being put in place to resolve all the challenges identified with passport application in Nigeria, saying the challenges currently being experienced are results of combined problems of the coronavirus disease, foreign exchange scarcity, and national identity number validation, among others. The Acting Comptroller General said apart from the tracking system, the agency will also in the next four weeks, introduce self-validation of applicants’ NIN available on its portal and that only when such is done will the applicant proceed to pay and book an appointment for capturing. He said: “We must also note that passports confer on holders, the integrity of a nation, therefore the integrity of producing such documents should also not be compromised. So we must verify the authenticity of applicants’ claims before we proceed for production. “Also, most times, delays are usually caused by the NIN validation problems and what we want to do now will allow individual applicants to first of all verify and validate their NIN and only upload validated NIN before they can pay for passports. By doing that, we would have successfully tackled the issue of delay from other partners which we don’t have control over.” Talking about the alert system introduction, Idris also explained that the service is working on the introduction of an alert system “so that holders of passports can be reminded when it is six month to the expiration of their passports.” “Like the driver licences, NIS is planning to introduce an alert system as soon as passports have about six months to expire. This is how much we are trying to leverage on technology to ease the stress currently being experienced,” the acting CGI said.