The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC), Ondo State Command, has rewarded 103 officers for exceptional service in the fight against pipeline vandalism, illegal bunkering and other vices in the state. Dr Hammed Abodunrin, the state Commandant, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Akure. Abodunrin said in addition, three officers of the command were recently rewarded by the NSCDC headquarters, Abuja, for gallantry and bravery in the fight against crimes in the state. The commandant scores his men high in the fight against crimes in the state. He, however, charged the officers to step up their game while collaborating with other security agencies. He said that the affected personnel were given Letter of Commendation as reward and encouragement for their outstanding performance. Abodunrin also said that the gesture was to appreciate their contribution for winning the “Best Commandant” and “Best Command” Awards for three consecutive times. The commandant, who explained that the Awards were received in September 2021, December 2021, and March 2022, said it was a quarterly event. According to him, any leader that is conscious of success, will imbibe the policy of reward for hard work, dedication and exceptional performance. “Apart from the three officers who got an award from the headquarters, I gave out letters of commendation to about 103 personnel in March. “Because a manager doesn’t carry a shovel, digger or hammer, he only tells people what to do as a manager, and he becomes a good manager. “So, if l am pronounced the Best Commandant for three consecutive times, then I should identify people who have being doing it at their various units, departments, including local governments. “Somebody who is coming to office early enough is part of those who are making us proud, and the only strength that we have as an agency in Nigeria today is hardwork and integrity,” he said. On the 2023 general elections, Abodunrin said that the command was engaging stakeholders, including electoral officers, political parties, media and security outfits in the state on the need for a peaceful conduct. “We are preparing for the upcoming elections, and aside our uniformed personnel, we will deploy our intelligence officers. “Election should be easy and peaceful if politicians are ready to just play according to the rules of the game,” he said. 