• Echoes Of Conspiracies In 1992, they featured in the transition to civil rule programme of military President Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida. One became a Senator; the other unsuccessfully sought to be President and Vice President. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu have been around in Nigerian politics. They belonged to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), which symbol was a white horse.  Now, 15 years after they plotted from the same platform to mount the horse of Nigeria’s Presidency, these two political juggernauts have again been joined by similar ambition in the chase of the ultimate political prize. Although Tinubu, who goes by the sobriquet, Jagaban, said becoming Nigeria’s President had always been his life ambition, Atiku has been reflecting those same words in action.
  
It would be recalled that in 1992, when he ended up as the second runner-up in the SDP Presidential primary, Atiku, who is well known, first as Turakin, and now, Wazirin Adamawa, contested for the party’s ticket on the promise of being the Bridge.
  
On his part, Tinubu secured an easy win to represent Lagos East Senatorial District in the Senate. Although that third Senate did not last long, Tinubu was a central player in the politics of election of floor functionaries.  It was gathered that Abiola’s decision to pick Kingibe as his running mate was informed by that gesture of support and submission, as well as the fact that IBB advised against picking Atiku in preference to Paschal Bafyau, a Christian, and the then President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC).
     
Although some commentators blamed the annulment of the 1993 Presidential election partly on Abiola’s repudiation of IBB’s counsel, the Muslim/Muslim ticket and internal barracks’ politics of the military, both Atiku and Tinubu took different political trajectories. While Atiku sulked silently over the choice of Kingibe, Tinubu went into the trenches with other SDP chieftains and rights activists.  Expanding Powerbase
AT the return of Nigeria to presidential democracy, Atiku and Tinubu played in different platforms. Although both men contested and won the 1999 governorship election in their respective states -Adamawa and Lagos- posterity put them in different leagues.
  
Falling back on the Progressive Front (PF) political structure he inherited from General Yar’Adua, Atiku was invited by Chief Olusegun Obasanjo to join him on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential ticket, which he won at the Jos convention.
 
It could be said that just as the PF machinery, which prevailed on him to step down in 1992 made a way for Atiku, Tinubu’s contributions to NADECO activities powered him into the governorship of Lagos State on the platform of AD at the expense of Engineer Funsho Williams.
 
Within the period 1999 through 2002, the Lagos State governor and the fourth republic Vice President deployed their talent and energies in expanding their political bases.
     
While Obasanjo literally handed over the running of the PDP Federal Government to his deputy, Tinubu employed the laws of power by dethroning his godfathers, the Yoruba Socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere.  Shaking The 2023 Table
THE 2023 election presents as the last meeting point of these two political allies. Ambition to lead Nigeria has brought them back together for the same purpose, but on different vessels.
  
As both strong political actors with means and fortune stir the waters, the words of Sylvester Stallone must be running in their heads: The last fight is on the mountain, finish and go! Whether the last fight would be during the PDP and APC Presidential primaries or the main election next February is left to be seen.
    
Last year, a chance meeting of both gladiators at the Minna Airport, where the shared a bear hug, sparked speculations that the two were working behind the scenes to revive and repeat a Muslim/Muslim ticket on SDP.
  
Those who hint at alternative platform for the two big players believe that as far as 2023 is concerned, both men are racing against time, especially given the clamour for paradigm change and pervasive influence of state governors in their political parties.
    
Not that alone, some of their former supporters have raised red flags to their participation in electoral battles. Although most of his political godsons are in the race to the 2023 Presidency, Tinubu said he has no son old enough to contest against him.
    
The former Lagos State governor has, however, continued to move crowd with his catchy sound bites and organisational swag. He said that contesting the Presidency has always been his life ambition. Although that statement was a weak rephrasing of Pa Awo’s remarks that he needed only 24 hours to transform Nigeria, Tinubu has so far not disappointed that he has a gift of the garb. 