• Confronting Southwest’s ‘Divided’ House There are three battlefronts within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Southern part of the country. They include the fight between Southwest and Southeast, intra-Southwest fight for the Presidency and schemes by pro-Northern Presidency Southern leaders of the party.
   
Checks by The Guardian show that the third battleground arose as a direct fall out of the fight between Southwest and Southeast for the APC Presidential ticket.
  
It was also gathered that the intra-Southwest fight for the top ticket followed internal contestation about a perceived political understanding about the issue of power rotation during the merger process. On one hand are those who believe that President Muhamadu Buhari promised to handover over to a former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, at the end of his second term.  Zoning Versus Micro-zoning
ZONING of the Presidential slot had been at the centre of the political uncertainty within the APC. But, while the body language of the party’s leadership betrays a certain willingness to abide with the power rotation convention between the North and South of the country, the issue of which micro-unit or geopolitical zone in the South should have it remains contentious.
   
Riding on its famed contributions to the merger of former fringe political parties into APC, members of the Southwest leadership caucus of APC held unto a purported gentleman agreement in 2014 to the effect that President Buhari would hand over to a person from Southwest geopolitical zone after his two terms in office.
    
However, as the Southwest insisted that there was a strong understanding that was equivalent to an agreement, supporters of the national leader of the party, Tinubu, claimed that the President promised to hand over to him (Tinubu) in 2023.
  
Meanwhile, as the argument over whether the agreement was to zone the Presidency to Southwest or handover to Tinubu raged in the geopolitical zone, some members of the merger committees denied that there was any such agreement.
   
The stalemate at the Lagos meeting apart, APC chieftains from Southeast continued to agitate that it would not make sense for Southwest to seek to succeed Buhari after the eight years of Prof. Osinbajo as Vice President.
   
Yet, other APC leaders contend that the decision to conscript Osinbajo into the Presidential race was ostensibly to pave the way for the possible retention of the Presidency in the North. But, dismissing any such attempt to retain the Presidential office in the North after Buhari, Minister for Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, declared that the understanding for the high office to move to the South was reached before the merger was consummated.
  
In spite of Southwest’s stalwart claims to succeed Buhari, APC chieftains from Southeast maintained that zoning would lose its essence if a particular section of the country is kept out of the leadership loop. Pointing at President Olusegun Obasanjo’s eight years and Osinbajo’s position as incumbent Vice President, the Southeast leaders declared that it was their turn to throw up the next President.
   
And, although Southwest leaders dismissed Southeast’s quest for the Presidential ticket in the claim that they should not hope to reap where they did not sow, the Southeast challenge helped to deepen the division among Southwest Presidential gladiators. Tinubu in handshake with Osinbajo  Orji’s letters versus Uzodimma’s schemes
BUT, signs that no such alliance or political collaboration was in the making emerged as the party planned its national convention to elect a new National Working Committee (NWC).
   
The Senate Chief Whip in a letter to President Buhari and chairman of the then Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, prayed the party to delay the convention to such a time that it would coincide with the Presidential primary. 