Demands enforcement without compromise A group, Defend Lagos Coalition, yesterday, called on Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to checkmate activities of transportation unions, local councils, some community development associations with all the seriousness it deserves. According to the group, independent survey has revealed that they encourage the operation of commercial motorcyclists through issuing them tickets to give sense of government support to activities. Speaking at a press brief, yesterday, Declan Ihekaire, who spoke for 14 civil society organisations that formed the coalition, called on law enforcement agents to join forces with the government in implementing the ban without any compromise. He said: “We commend Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu for the bold step of announcing the ban on Okada operations in six local government council areas and LCDAs. Once again, Mr. Governor has shown without any doubt that he is a dutiful servant of the people, who is ever ready to listen and carry out the people’s desires in line with his constitutional mandate. “As grassroots based organisations, we have in the past couple of months, conducted independent surveys, which revealed that not only are majority of these motorcycle riders foreigners from countries, such as Republic of Chad, Niger Republic and other neighbouring countries, we were also able to establish that they constitute a very potent risk to life and property of Lagosians. They must be stopped before it is too late.” Ihekaire called on Lagos residents to join hands in demanding from the Lagos State government a total clampdown on motorcycles as a means of transportation in every nook and cranny of the state. “There is no doubt, that as often said in the past, that there will be some discomfort created by the clampdown, as being demanded by us, the security implication of not enforcing the clampdown will be a major threat to peace, public safety and continued survival of law abiding citizens of Lagos State.” “Further, available records have shown that motorcycle operations have been identified as the favorite of criminals, who torment our people in traffic and their various communities. As it stands today, a collective action, which requires the input of all true Lagosians, is needed to eradicate the menace of Okada in Lagos. “We are, therefore, calling on the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration to immediately work towards the restoration of law and order in public transportation, to ease the inconveniences that will likely arise, as a result of this inevitable demand,” he added. 