Affirms commitment to Oyetola’s re-election bid Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi yesterday, debunked speculation that he was having a rift with former governor of Lagos State and one of the presidential aspirants under the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the forthcoming general elections. Fayemi stated this in Osogbo during his consultation with the party faithful in Osun State over his presidential aspiration.
The Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum urged the delegates in the state to exercise unity of purpose in supporting South-West agenda, saying that victory for one is victory for all. He said: “For me, the victory of South-West means that we are all victorious, because there is no aspirant from the zone who is not eminently qualified. Our values have remained constant and we are leaders in the progressive movement. “We are driven by the same belief, passion and commitment to improve the condition of the people. That is what is driving whatever we are doing. “I have not come with any sense of entitlement. I have only come to make an appeal. And it is important to dispel any insinuation that there is one big battle going on among us. This is not true. As a matter of fact, I told Asiwaju that I am coming here today. So, people should be careful not to inherit non-existent enemies. What is important is the progress of the people and success of the South-West.” Meanwhile, Fayemi has expressed his readiness to support Governor Adegboyega Oyetola to ensure his success, especially in the July 16, 2022  governorship election. He lauded the governor’s rich understanding of governance and progressive ideologies, saying he has shown unusual capacity to keep the state afloat amid depressed economy. In his remarks, Oyetola lauded Fayemi for his support over the years, saying: “I am elated to welcome my dear brother to our state. We have been brothers for several years before now. Our journey of brotherhood didn’t start from politics. “The beauty of what is happening is the fact that South-West has brilliant aspirants to showcase. It shows that we have the best for the contest. “I pray that God will grant your heart desires and by His grace, South-West will produce the presidential candidate of the party.”