With the theme ‘Informing Yourself To Understand The World’, Lycee Francais Louis Pasteur (LFLP) teachers and students recently participated in the 33rd Press and Media Week (#spme2022) to help students of all ages and levels understand the functioning of the media system. The press and media week was aimed at forging students’ identity as citizens and gaining more exposure to the profession of journalism, what it entails, its multiple facets and expressions. It was also geared towards refining students’ critical judgment as well as strengthening their sensitivity to information. Information specialists from all walks of life were invited to the school to discuss various aspects of the systems that generate and disseminate information. A journalist from Agence France Presse (AFP), Yasmine Canga Valles, presented her job as an image reporter to the pupils of the CM2 (Grade 5). Also a freelance journalist, Liza Fabbian, worked with the CE2 (Grade 3) pupils on the design of a class newspaper. The Seconde (Grade 10) students received the Deputy Editor-in-Chief of Radio France International (RFI) Hausa, Mr. Abdoulkarim Ibrahim, for a question and answer session, where the students, who were very curious about the difficulties of the profession, asked many questions. The final year students hosted RFI’s Hausa Bureau Chief and winner of the Albert Londres Prize, Sophie Bouillon, France’s highest distinction for journalism. Lagos Deputy Bureau Chief of AFP, Camille Malplat, met with the 4eme (Grade 8) students for a series of questions and answers about her job.   
  
The two journalists’ contributions were aimed at helping the students distinguish between different information sources, understand the contexts in which information is produced and disseminated, gain awareness in the uses and effects of images as well as knowledge of how to deconstruct stereotypes. To crown it all, several works by a cartoonist, Ebun Aleshinloye, were exhibited in the school for two days. Aleshinloye hosted several primary and secondary school classes to discuss his work, his inspirations and even directed some creative workshops. The LFLP, which is currently enrolling, provides education in accordance with the French curriculum, while considering the local context such as language, culture and others.