• 13 players in camp for Mexico, Equador match
Newly appointed coach of the Super Eagles, Jose Peseiro, brought three assistant coaches to the team, bringing the number of technical crew members to eight. The Portuguese tactician, who came with fitness coach, Maykel Moreira, Acacio Santos and Vitor Hugo, held his first official meeting with the rest of the technical crew yesterday, shortly on arrival in the United States ahead of tomorrow’s international friendly match against Mexico and Equador. The crew met together for the first time yesterday since Peseiro’s appointment. The Super Eagles technical crew comprises Head Coach, José Peseiro, Finidi George (First assistant coach) Salisu Yusuf (Second assistant coach), Usman Abdallah (Third assistant coach), Ike Shorunmu (Goalkeepers trainer), Maykel Moreira (Fitness coach), Acacio Santos (Assistant coach), Vitor Hugo (Analyst) and Eboboritse Uwejamomere (Analyst). As at yesterday’s evening (Nigerian time), only 13 players were in the camp of the Super Eagles ahead of the games against Ecuador and Mexico.  They include Adewale Adeyinka (Akwa United), Ojo Olorunleke (Enyimba FC), Ibrahim Buhari (Plateau United), Chiamaka Madu (Rivers United) and Ishaq Rafiu (Rivers United). Other players in camp are Victor Mbaoma (Enyimba FC), Faisal Sanni (Katsina United), Babatunde Bello (Akwa United), Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy), Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England), William Troost-Ekong (Watford FC, England), Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France) and Alex Iwobi (Everton FC, England). Seventeen players were still being expected to join the squad in the United States last night. The Super Eagles will trade tackles with Qatar 2022 World Cup-bound South American and North American teams. The game will be Peseiro’s first in charge of the Super Eagles after the NFF confirmed his appointment a few weeks ago. Three-time African champions will tango with the El Tri at the AT & T Stadium in Dallas tomorrow, before flying to New Jersey to confront Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on Thursday, June 2. The Super Eagles had their first training session at 6.00 p.m. (Dallas, Texas time) yesterday. 