• As CBT centres demand support from government, describe examination as successful The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has given reasons it is yet to release results of the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The Registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, said the examination body is yet to release results due to internal appraisal. He said the body would not release results until it receives reports of examination malpractices, adding that only 60 per cent of results came in after the examinations. Oloyede said, “We have no reason not to release the results but we are also doing some internal appraisal. One, we do not want this situation where you release results and you start to withdraw some; so, we have asked people to submit reports, particularly, of malpractices. “And for the first day after the result was ready, we now scrutinised and saw that about 40 per cent of the report were not in. So, why release 60 per cent and create confusion? We have insisted that this year, we will not release results until we have all the reports of examination malpractices. The results are ready but we believe we need to have all the reports; we have about 70 per cent of reports now updated but we want 100 per cent. Over 1.7 million candidates registered for the 2022 exercise. Oloyede also said that it had no significant concerns as the exercise progressed. It, however, reiterated its zero tolerance for examination infractions and urged candidates to conduct themselves properly, while following its rules. MEANWHILE, some operators of CBT centres have appealed to government for support in terms of funding, even as they described the conduct of the examination as generally successful. The administrator, Bafuto Institute of Management and Information Technology, Banjo Adekunle, said increase in the diesel price is a huge challenge. Mrs Esther Oriyomi of Classic International CBT centre, said the body has improved tremendously in the conduct of the examination. She said issues of network and malpractice have reduced. The administrator, Rising Sun CBT centre, Longa Olusegun, said its centre has being running for the past five years and has overcome some of the challenges confronting it.  He said the body has improved on its network system, while they rely on generators solely during the period of the examination. THERE were, however, mixed reactions from candidates over the success or otherwise of the examinations.  While some candidates said the examinations were successful and networks better, others said they had issues with the questions, especially English. Adewole Suliat and Tijani Sumayya said the examination was one of the easiest they have written so far and expected to score 300 and above. But Tolu Jimoh and Ololade Ganiyu said they had delays while writing the examination while others complained of slow network.