Sir: I have taken note of the meeting of South West leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos last week. The assembly had resolved, to the relief of all Nigerians, that all aspirants from the region do have the right to contest for the presidency, and by implication, no aspirant should be harassed, cowed, abused, insulted or attacked for pursuing his political dreams. The nation looks forward to this truce lasting throughout the season till the end of the elections. It is also notable that several aspirants from the South West region have jumped into the race soon after the leaders’ meeting. If this is not a coincidence, it could be that the emerging political environment is more conducive, enabling and attractive to modern politicking. Once again, the region has shown exemplary behaviour in the manner it conducts its politics. The attempt to paint the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo negatively because his opponents had not expected the VP to be in the contest was patently a flawed strategy in the first place. Why keep asking Osinbajo to withdraw from the election?  For one, the VP is not the first person to get into an electoral duel with his former boss. In 2003 and 2007, the incumbent President had challenged President Olusegun Obasanjo in the presidential elections of those years, and it didn’t matter to us that as a military Head of State in 1976, Gen. Obasanjo had appointed Col. Muhammadu Buhari petroleum minister. It was not an issue throughout the campaigns of 2003 and 2007; and I’m sure many Nigerians did not even remember this aspect of our history. So, the idea of calling another aspirant ‘betrayer’ was quite strange to many Nigerians who are earnestly yearning for genuine leadership, decent conversations and fresh ideas that would make our country better. I am also pleased that the leader’s summit was attentive enough to extend deference, respect and courtesy to the Vice President at the meeting. The South West leaders were wise not to ask any aspirant to step down, as many have feared. That would have set off a fresh round of unanticipated crisis. I salute their sagacity. By all accounts, Osinbajo is well on his way to emerging a candidate at the convention. His message since he got into the race on April 11 has been inspiring, assuring and full of hope. Osinbajo has never been tainted by any scandal, either in official or private life. Cerebral, well-educated, well-spoken and unassuming, he cuts the picture of a leader who will bring our diverse peoples together, unite the country and take us on the path of economic development. We in Akwa Ibom State are working hard to receive the VP later in the week. Welcome Sir to the Land of Promise! Etim Etim. 