The unclaimed dividend control tussle between shareholders and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) assumed a perceived negative turn last month, following an announcement by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the penultimate Thursday.
 
The outfit disclosed that the N170b unclaimed dividends have finally been remitted to the Unclaimed Dividend Trust Fund (UDTF), which is being managed by the Commission and the Debt Management Office (DMO). The remittance was, however, done despite efforts by shareholders to restrain the Federal Government from taking over the management of the fund.  Dividends are the distributable earnings of a company. The earnings, which are not distributed, constitute retained earnings. Dividends payout and retained earnings vary according to companies. The decision on whether or not to declare a dividend rests in the hands of the board of directors of a company. However, when declared, it becomes a liability on the company, according to the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 1990.  For Professor of Finance, University of Nigeria Nsukka, Chuke Nwude, the outcry against the government’s move is because it has not been exemplary in the management of public funds, just as it is a wrong decision to keep such “financial windfall” in government’s care. “It is a bad decision. The best thing to do is to establish a trust fund that will be managed by an independent body other than the government in such a way that the claimants to the unclaimed dividends can collect their money whenever they are alerted.” Corroborating this view, a professor of economics at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Sheriffdeen Tella, also stated that unclaimed dividend belongs to the company involved, and not the government, adding that dividend is purely a private sector affair, and the government should only provide an enabling environment for the real sector to survive and operate.  Director-General of the SEC, Lamido Yuguda  They also argued that if a trust fund must be created, it should be under the supervision of a leading private sector group, as against under the Federal Government. While hinging their opposition to the present development on the claim that most assets managed by government officials in the past were either grossly abused or misappropriated, they also contended that the takeover of unclaimed dividends by the government was not necessary since market regulators, through various initiatives, were taking steps to ensure that unclaimed dividends were reduced to the barest minimum.
 
The investors suggested that instead of creating a trust fund for unclaimed dividends, the government should simplify letters of administration for deceased families, and make the process of claims less cumbersome for investors.
 
In the view of the Independent Shareholders Association, creating a trust fund is a disincentive to investment, as previous trust funds were marred by allegations of corruption.
 
“The government has forgotten that it has taken over 30 per cent tax, from companies that generate the dividends on profit before tax, and 10 per cent from the individual investors through withholding tax. What moral right do you have to take funds that do not belong to you? In Section 39(f) of the Finance Bill, it is stated that all unclaimed dividends that have remained unclaimed for a period of not less than 12 years shall lapse into government revenue, and shall be transferred from the unclaimed dividends trust fund to the federal account as federal revenue.” Pat Utomi 