The General Manager, Operations, Chemstar Paints Industry Nigeria Limited, Ukpai Cyprian, has said non-compliance with safety rules at workplaces causes severe damage to companies’ productivity, output, and economic losses. He stated this yesterday as the company marked the 2022 Health and Safety Week, with the theme: “Good Health and Safety Practice; Your Responsibility and Benefits,” held at the company’s headquarters in Lagos. Cyprian said the economic loss of non-adherence to safety practices at the workplace is very high, especially when accidents occur, which lowers the productivity level of the company. “In the industry, workers are so stubborn that most times we have to try and ensure they comply with safety standards at the workplace. The company also loses lots of money by not producing optimally because the accident victim is being treated with funds and the family has to be taken care of by the company. “With this, the overall goals of the company will decline as a result of non-compliance of workers. Enforcement is a key practice for them to adhere to these safety rules at work. As a company, we ensure they wear their protective gadgets at work to keep them protected from hazards at the workplace,” he added. On the outcome of the programme being held yearly, Cyprian said the feedback had been tremendous as people acknowledged the need for proper safety practices at the workplace and imbibing them. Also speaking, the Group Managing Director, Chemstar Group, Adedayo Paseda, said safety is a continuous practice as it is key to the productivity and development of an organisation. “We want our staff to imbibe safe practices at work and at home. It is only healthy people that can work. He/she must be physically and mentally healthy. Even the person’s personal life matters, as anything that happens to their loved ones, affect their daily ability to concentrate at work and in turn their productivity, which affects the company’s output,” he said. Paseda said as part of the company’s efforts to ensure a healthy and safe working environment, it made wearing protective wear and gadgets mandatory for all staff and visitors of the company. “We ensure adequate compliance to the user because that is another critical area of focus as some staff don’t keep to wearing them. Some individuals feel wearing safety clothing is discomforting to them, but we let them know it is for their own benefit,” he added. 