Oduduwa University (OUI), Ipetumodu, Osun State, is matriculating over 500 students for the 2021/2022 academic session. The matriculating students were admitted to undergraduate and postgraduate studies. OUI registrar, Dr. Mrs. Adeline Adeyemi, said the school has started offering newly accredited courses National Universities Commission (NUC), leading to the award of; B.Sc Architecture.
B.Eng Electrical and Electronics Engineering.
B.Eng Computer Engineering.
B.Eng Mechanical Engineering.
Award of BSc B.Eng. “OUI is 12 years and still counting, we are optimistic that more students will join us in this great citadel of learning and will continue to turn out successful and achieve greater goals in life,” Adeyemi said. “You would recall that we recently got full accreditation on four courses. That is a great feat, I am grateful to God and to the entire staff.” Proposed College of Law building, Oduduwa University (OUI), Ipetumodu, Osun State. As part of the week-long matriculation ceremony, OUI organised a Collegiate football competition which ended with the college of management winning the championship cup. The game featured colleges of communication and media studies, college of management and social science, college of environmental design and management, Ramon Adedoyin College of Natural and Applied Science, and Ramon Adedoyin College of Engineering and Technology. Adeyemi said the OUI has comfortable hostel accommodation for students, adequate learning facilities, a multi-million Naira library, an uninterrupted power supply, and OUI Maye Hospital for students’ use. The registrar noted that OUI has additional learning structures to equip students with professional skills and experience. They are the Centre for Entrepreneurial and Vocational training, Institute of Information and Communication Studies, Institute of Cultural Studies, and Directorate of International and  Exchange Programme. Mr Idown Aloba, the dean of student affairs, stated that the school offers students career and academic counselling to help them make decisions that will be beneficial to the pursuit of their ambition in and out of school. He urged the newly matriculated students to be well-behaved and serve as worthy ambassadors of Oduduwa University. 