 WWE Photo:CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP/Getty Images SmackDown was led off by Roman Reigns, The Usos, and Paul Heyman, and following a recap of their last week’s match with RK-Bro, The Tribal Chief announced that The Bloodline would become the Greatest of All-Time tonight. Heyman compared Reigns to John Cena and Brock Lesnar, and predicted that The Usos will join him at the top of the food chain if they defeated RK-Bro to win the Undisputed Tag Team Championships. The Usos will not return to the “island of relevancy” if they do not win tonight, according to Heyman. Before heading out for the first match, Reigns wished his cousins success, and we saw Sami Zayn, dressed in a Bloodline t-shirt, join in the celebration. Raquel Rodriguez hoisted Shotzi and carried her to the corner before lowering her to the ground with one arm. Shotzi returned with a kick, but he was caught on the turnbuckles. She attempted to grab on to Rodriguez’s back but was pushed into a corner. Shotzi received some powerful kicks, but her diving Rana was caught in a Fallaway Slam. Rodriguez knocked Shotzi around the ring before securing the victory with the Chingona Bomb! It was revealed that Sasha Banks and Naomi had been suspended indefinitely following their walkout incident, and that a tournament to crown the new WWE Women’s Tag Team Champions will be held soon. The match was started by Riddle and Jimmy Uso, with The Original Bro getting the first few takedowns. Riddle pushed Jimmy into a corner before the latter retaliated with blows. As the sport was paused and we headed for a break, Riddle appeared to be injured. As the match progressed on SmackDown, we realized that Riddle had a damaged hip. Riddle was alone, but he managed to tag Randy Orton, who came in and gave Jimmy the RKO for a near fall. Riddle and Jey Uso both entered the ring, with Riddle hitting a senton but getting a neck breaker from Uso. Riddle attempted a top rope RKO, but Roman Reigns intervened and dropped him while the ref was distracted. Jey took advantage of the commotion and won with a frog splash. The Usos defeated RK-Bro to win the Undisputed Tag Team Championship. Sami Zayn secured a headlock early on, but Shinsuke Nakamura reversed the hold and landed some kicks. Nakamura received a knee drop but was forced to take a clothesline. Before dropping Nakamura, Sami Zayn got caught on the top rope, but the latter also dropped Zayn before he could hit a move. Zayn avoided the Kinshasa, but he did take an elbow before we took a break. Back on SmackDown, Nakamura hit Zayn with a rope-assisted sunset bomb before fleeing. Before attempting to get the count-out, the latter hit a Michinoku Driver on the outside, but Nakamura returned to the ring. Shinsuke Nakamura sends Sami Zayn to the timekeeper’s section before setting up for the Kinshasa and waiting for Zayn to return. He barely beat the referee’s count, but he took the Kinshasa to the ground for the three. On SmackDown, Happy Corbin was up next, gloating over injuring his erstwhile best friend. He posed with the Andre the Giant trophy before playing footage from last week and revealing that he had been fined for it. Corbin called Madcap Moss ungrateful and claimed to be The Big Bald Wolf before destroying only the base of the Andre the Giant trophy and posing with the top statuette. Ludwig Kaiser was back with his amusing German accent to introduce Gunther, who was set to meet Drew Gulak on SmackDown next. Early on, Gunther had Drew Gulak tossed around the ring and landed some nasty chops. Gulak attempted a chop of his own but was immediately knocked out. Gunther landed more chops on Gulak before powerbombing him to the ground and winning the match. Gunther used the Boston Crab on Gulak after the bout. Ricochet entered the ring to stop him, but Gunther and Kaiser bolted.