Time is a great healer. This is apt in describing the settling dust generated by Prof. Yemi Osinbajo’s triumphant entry into the nation’s presidential race. It has remained an issue which gained traction within and beyond the shores of Nigeria’s political landscape. The Yoruba adage says, “whenever a blacksmith repeatedly beats an iron rod under furnace treatment on the same spot along with its length with his hammer/mallet, it behoves on the discerning observers that there is more to it.” Of significance, the ever-widening ripples generated by Prof. Yemi Osinbajo’s presidential bid shall remain a big threat to other contestants whose present and past records in politics are shrouded in controversies. Ambition is different from the mission. While Prof. Yemi Osinbajo’s presidential bid is borne out of a genuine mission to serve the country with a true sense of altruism, patriotism and sincerity of purpose, some others’ bids might be borne out of a life-long ambition to rule. Remarkably, there is a difference between being tested and being trusted. Many of the aspirants were once entrusted with public offices. However, their ability to live above board is another ball game. This is one area where Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has distinguished himself. He towers above others in handling public funds and diligence in service. In retrospect, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, just as his principal, President Buhari was constrained by the statutory rules to declare his assets publicly. A swipe at their lots did not reflect opulence. Since then, little or nothing has changed. The President’s prolonged sick leave cannot be forgotten in a hurry. It is glorifying that he was cured of the infirmities, but his absence exposed the administrative ingenuity, competence and ability of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Within a short space of time, he was able to resolve the armed resistance of the Niger Delta Youths against the Federal establishment and succeeded in stabilising Nigeria’s body polity. There is no doubting the fact that the Vice President’s vast knowledge of law and economy has impacted positively on the successes recorded by the APC administration in Nigeria. As against the destructive campaigns being mounted by the fifth columnists against the Buhari administration on the bad shape of our economy, we should remember that the system has survived two economic recessions, and at the same time, monthly financial allocations to the federating units have not abated for a second. The heretical claims of the opposition have no basis in practical terms. It is an incontrovertible fact that the Federal government’s efforts at improving the lots of Nigerians are being sabotaged on all fronts by the desperate power-mongers and shadow chasers. Economic saboteurs, (round-tripping) and allied criminal acts, banditry, armed resistance and subversion of national values are some of the challenges confronting the government. But despite all odds, the government has achieved a lot in infrastructural development, agricultural production and the fight against insecurity. In all these cases, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has made significant inputs. And, this feat is widely acknowledged by Nigerians and stakeholders in this government. Should Prof. Yemi Osinbajo be denied the privilege of succeeding Buhari, Nigeria shall become a laughing stock among the comity of the nation. Nigerians shall be accused of abandoning their best in favour of mediocrity. Aside from the fact that the gentleman is armed with sufficient academic credentials, he has brought the same to bear on governance. In politics, he is a very huge asset, being a product of three large constituencies, Viz; academics, law and religion respectively. In sundry terms, he commands a lot of respect and the largest followership among the pack. Osinbajo is a detribalised Nigerian, a stabiliser and a reliable bridge builder who shall no doubt provide solutions to the myriads of challenges confronting Nigeria’s political administration. To the ill-informed, who have taken refuge in argumentum ad hominem, they should adjust themselves and focus on real issues rather than cheap sentiments. They need to be educated and enlightened that when nature beckons on them to serve, they have no option. Osinbajo’s inclination to serve the country resonates with the wishes of ethnic nationalities in Nigeria. It is not based on self-desire or parochial primordial biases.