The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has directed Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders in the country to approach their various Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to participate in the ongoing Data Recapture Exercise (DRE). The commission, in a statement made available at the weekend, stated that the exercise is for both active contributors and retirees, whose data had not been recaptured. The DRE, according to the commission, complies with the directive of the Federal Government that all data-generating organisations should harmonise their databases with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) for easy access. “It is also consistent with the need to have a credible database of all RSA holders in the country. “Consequently, all active contributors are hereby advised to visit their PFAs and provide the following documents, staff identity card, national driver’s licence, permanent voter’s card, international passport (mandatory for non-Nigerians), enrollment slip issued by NIMC, birth certificate or sworn affidavit of age declaration. “For retirees, who are either on programmed withdrawal or annuity, they are expected to present the same documents with their letters of retirement issued by the employer. “All RSA holders who have had a name change (either their surnames or first names or both after registration), should present their marriage certificates (only applicable in the case of marriage). “Newspaper publications for change of name, affidavits and confirmation letters for change of name from employer (if still in employment),” it said. According to PenCom, all PFAs have been directed to issue an acknowledgement slip to RSA holders who submit complete documents for their data recapture. The commission said RSA holders would be notified of the status of their data recapturing (successful or not successful) within five working days of submission of documents. PenCom confirmed that two agents – Payone Solution Systems Limited and Afritech Multi-Concept Limited – have been engaged by PFAs to carry out DRE as approved by the Commission.