Whoever becomes Nigeria’s president in 2023 will curse his luck severely. First, he or she will inherit a near-empty treasury, debt hangover and more creditors seeking repayment of matured loans. Second, a vastly divided and unsecured country. Third, a people still fantasizing about the idea of a God-ordained miracle-worker that should tackle all problems and change the country overnight. In their impatience, the population will threaten social tension across and further distract the leadership. So, in whatever direction the president looks, the numbers will not add up. It is neither a prophecy of doom nor an express prediction of a stargazer. They are all realities of our lives and a reward of perennial mismanagement of our country.  It begins with retooling the armed forces, intelligence agencies, and border guards – all in tandem with a complete overhaul of the policing system. To complement combat is to discourage criminality by phasing in bold universal social policies that will decisively tackle poverty and upgrade human capital. “In this perspective, the deliberate expansion of employment opportunities, youth	 entrepreneurship, skills development, and innovation, support to the weak and vulnerable such as we have done in Ekiti State for the elderly, and women’s socio-economic empowerment will be treated as just one dimension of our comprehensive response to the costly security crises that have destabilised us, as will the pursuit of broad welfare policies that are embedded into a new state-society bargain and the empowerment of citizens,” he said.
 
By extension, the adoption of broad socio-economic measures that enhance national capacity to fight insecurity pursued pari passu with investments in reinforcing the deterrent capacity of the state through its armed forces, security agencies, and policing authorities. “Authority and legitimacy and deterrence and rapid response go hand in hand, just as we must better interface economic policies with broad social objectives and goals of political inclusivity towards a well-defined outcome, namely, the sustained peace, stability, and progress of our country. And let there be no doubt: for the economy to serve broader social and political purposes that enhance human and state security, stem poverty, and promote national prosperity, my agenda for Nigeria encompasses attention to questions of productivity, diversification, domestic value addition, investments in and incentives for research, development, and innovation, and the expansion of domestic revenue mobilisation, among others.” 