Son Heung-min labelled Tottenham’s Premier League schedule as “madness” but bemoaned the decision to substitute him against Arsenal as he chases the Golden Boot award. Antonio Conte’s side were cruising at 3-0 up against Arsenal on Thursday after a Harry Kane double and strike from Son, who was removed in the 72nd minute for Steven Bergwijn after adding to his impressive tally. Son has scored 21 non-penalty goals in the Premier League this season, with only Harry Kane ever netting more goals, excluding penalties, in a single season in the competition for Spurs. Meanwhile, only Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah, who has managed 22 goals, has scored more times than Son in the English top flight this term, teeing up a hotly contested race for the Golden Boot. The South Korea international admitted he was frustrated to be taken off as he chases the personal accolade, but understands why given the short turnaround to face Burnley on Sunday. “To be honest looking at the schedule, it is madness,” Son said. “We are playing Thursday night and Sunday (today) with a really early kick-off. “It is a really quick turnaround, we need to do everything to recover: good food, good sleep and get ready to go again. “It would always be good to have a [later] kick-off [today], but if you win the early kick-off it is always good. It feels like you wake up and you go to play the game. “Especially Thursday to Sunday is a really quick turnaround. But this is the schedule, we can’t change it and we need to be ready for every situation, which we will do. “I will try my best to sleep. But if I struggle what can I do? If I am struggling I still have to try my best to recover. For me sleep is one of the most important things to recover and I’ll do my best.” As for being brought off, Son is more interested in how the team does as Tottenham sit one point behind fourth-placed Arsenal with two games to play. “I am always not happy at coming off because I want to be on the pitch because I love playing football and I want to help the team,” he added. 