• Kill One, Kidnap Community Head, Traditional Title Holder, 18 Others
• Farmers Threaten To Take Up Arms Over Incessant Kidnaps, Killings In yet another mindless attack, terrorists, yesterday, wreaked havoc in Kaduna. They killed one person and kidnapped 20 others at Kurmin, near Millennium City in Chikun Local Council of the State. Besides, in an interview with Radio Nigeria, one of the heads of the Joint Task Force (JTF) on Security in the community, who pleaded anonymity, said the bandits attacked the Kurmin Sata community around 12:16 a.m. yesterday. He said out of the 20 persons, four, including two women and two men, had escaped. He lamented that the village head of the community, traditional title holders, women and children were among the kidnapped victims. He said that while the kidnappers were shooting sporadically, a bullet hit and killed one person in his home. The witness confirmed the Police from Millennium City had visited the community. Meanwhile, effort to speak with the Police spokesman, ASP Mohammed Jalige for confirmation was not successful. In a related development, farmers in Kaduna, yesterday, warned that if security challenges persisted without any solution, they might be forced to take up arms against their attackers. The assertion came after the farmers spent eight days at home without going to the farm due to insecurity. Farmers in Kajuru, Mararaban Rido, Kachia, Kargoro, Kawo and Zaria, who spoke through their Chairman, Ibrahim Mustapha, in a statement, said bandits had caged them and prevented them from going to their farms. He said since 2015 when bandits spread across the state, they were no longer free to go to farms, as they would love to. “Since 2015, when bandits took over Kaduna and its environs, we have been afraid of going to the farm. “They have kidnapped many of our people and we have paid huge amount of money as ransom. Some farmers have been killed, while those who managed to pay the ransom have remained in abject poverty till now,” he said He pleaded with security agents to intensify efforts aimed at combating crime in the state. 