Cardano (ADA) and Binance (BNB) are two of the dominant tokens that crypto investors believe could see significant gains in price this year despite the recent dip in the crypto markets. These two projects have great potential to grow by a factor of ten, but experts note that a third token, Chronoly (CRNO), also has the potential for significant returns. Cardano (ADA) is a project that is looking to revolutionize the world of blockchain. The Cardano team is made up of some of the most experienced and respected people in the industry. Cardano (ADA) is trading at $0.7410, an increase of 6.11 percent from the previous weeks price. Cardano’s price is expected to break the $2 mark and retest it’s ATH of $3 by the end of the year according to industry insiders. By the end of the year, prices are predicted to rise by as much as 72 percent. According to engineers earlier this week, a fresh Cardano update increased the network’s block size by 10%. According to experts the 10% increase in network block size will assist boost data throughput and scalability. Cardano’s performance of decentralized apps, or services that depend on smart contracts, is also projected to increase. Also, Cardano has always had a well-defined roadmap, with each update addressing a specific problem. Experts have seen the ADA price react similarly in the run-up to and after each update. Though the bottom has not yet been reached, the medium/long-term outlook for ADA remains positive. Binance (BNB) is one of the most popular cryptocurrency exchanges in the world. Binance is showing signs of bullish behaviour and is projected to climb in the near future, making it an easy 10x return for your crypto portfolio. Binance had an initial coin offering price of $0.15 in 2017. According to the latest prices, the valuation of BNB went up significantly by the end of that year. Over the course of 5 years since its ICO, prices have risen by nearly 2700%. At the time of this writing, it is trading at $355.90 and might increase fast to $630 and beyond if the bulls succeed. The price seems to be showing signs of recovery after a recent auto-burn event where BNB chain burnt roughly $722 million worth of BNB tokens. In light of the fact that Binance is the most prominent cryptocurrency exchange, including the BNB token in your portfolio might be a wise move. Chronoly is a new project that has the potential to take the crypto and watch markets by storm. It is an blockchain-powered watch investing platform for trading, authenticating and fractional investing in rare and collectible watches from brands like Rolex, Patek Philippe, Richard Mille, and Audemars Piguet. As the world’s first fractional watch investment platform, Chronoly users will be able to trade fractional NFTs (non-fungible tokens) in the form of real-world watches, just like trading shares in a stock. Investors can purchase fractional shares for as low as $10. User’s will also be able to redeem an actual watch from Chronoly’s vault. To do so, customers who have acquired 100% of the watch fractions may burn their watch NFTs and have Chronoly send the watch to any of over 120 countries using their security partners’ shipping service. Chronoly presale is now open, with the (CRNO) token trading at a starting price of $0.01. The presale will only be open for 90 days, and only 30% of the total supply will be available during this period. This makes it an ideal opportunity for investors to get in early. Many industry experts expect the price of CRNO tokens to rise more than 10x within the few weeks of trading. Their platform integrates web3, NFTs and blockchain technology into one ecosystem, making it a very promising project.  For more information on presale:  Presale: https://presale.chronoly.io/register Website: https://chronoly.io/ Telegram: https://t.me/Chronolyio Twitter: https://twitter.com/Chronolyio