Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested a suspected 59-year-old drug baroness, Bridget Oghenekevwe Emeka, a.k.a Mama, alleged to be the backbone of a major cartel distributing drugs in Delta and adjourning states. The suspect was arrested on Sunday, May 15 at her mansion, where she allegedly cooks and distributes crack cocaine, methamphetamine and other illicit substances. Spokesperson for the anti-narcotics agency, Femi Babafemi, in a statement yesterday, said no fewer than nine of her staff and associates were arrested along with her in coordinated operations at her expansive residence and drug bunks. She uses the premises to accommodate drug users and sells illicit substances to them and others in parts of Warri, Delta State. According to Babafemi, apart from various quantities of crack cocaine, methamphetamine, Molly and Loud seized from her home as well as drug bunks; a pump action gun, 15 cartridges, documents, two cars, mobile phones, drug paraphernalia, such as sodium bicarbonate and polythene wrappings were also recovered for further investigation. “While five of her staff that cook, cut, package and distribute the drugs were found in her house located at Favour Street, Otokutu in Effurun, Warri, four of her associates were also arrested at her drug bunks in other parts of the town during the raids by NDLEA officers supported by the military. “The drug baroness has been under surveillance for weeks after her identification as a major distributor of illicit drugs in the South-South states. “Bridget cooks cocaine into crack cocaine for local distribution and consumption in drug joints. “Some of the paraphernalia for making crack recovered from her house include: sodium bicarbonate, which is the main adulterant and recipe for making crack cocaine, as well as transparent nylon used in wrapping the finished product,” he said. MEANWHILE, Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (Retd), has commended officers and men involved in the processes leading to the eventual execution of the operation. He also appreciated the armed forces for their unwavering support for the Agency. 