• Olagoke congratulates Muslims on Eid-el-Fitri, tasks parents with child’s care
• Sanwo-Olu’s aide felicitates with Muslims, seeks unity, peaceful co-existence
• It’s worrisome FG can’t proffer solutions to strike conundrum, cleric laments Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has urged Nigerians, particularly the clerics, to pray fervently for peaceful elections in 2023 and a transition of power. The governor stated this, yesterday while addressing the Muslim faithful at the Lantoro Central Praying- ground in Abeokuta, the state capital, where the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Saad Bamigbola, led Islam adherents in obligatory prayer, urging them to shun all acts that could bring Islam into disrepute. Abiodun, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Shuaib Salis, appealed to residents to eschew violence and vices capable of throwing the state and the country into turmoil. He also urged politicians to refrain from taking actions or making utterances that could heat up the polity. SIMILARLY, Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has congratulated the Muslim Ummah for witnessing this year’s Eid-el- Fitri. The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, urged them not to relent in their supplications to the Almighty Allah for Nigeria to overcome its challenges and fulfil its potential as a great nation. He also implored them to pray for peace, harmony and tranquillity before, during and after the June 18, 2022 governorship election. ALSO, the spiritual head, Shafaudeen in Islam Worldwide, Prof. Sabit Ariyo Olagoke, yesterday, urged parents to ensure proper upbringing of their wards as a way to address the current insecurity challenges in the country. In his Sallah message to felicitate Muslims on the completion of this year’s Ramadan fast, Olagoke urged adherents of Islam to imbibe and put into practice all the lessons learned during the Ramadan period in their daily affairs. BESIDES, Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Education, Tokunbo Wahab, has congratulated the Muslim faithful for successfully completing the fasting period. In a statement, yesterday, Wahab commended Muslims for observing all the rites associated with fasting, noting that God would reward their perseverance, tolerance, inconveniences and self-deprivation in the cause of Allah. He urged them to use the occasion of the Eid-el-Fitri celebration to pray for the unity of the country, mutual love and peaceful transition in the current democratic dispensation. MEANWHILE, a professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies at the University of Ibadan (UI), Abdulrahman Oloyede, yesterday, lamented the protracted strikes bedeviling the nation’s education sector. Oloyede also urged politicians to remember the citizens in their dealings so that they can walk freely in society. The scholar gave the admonition while delivering his Eld-el-Fitri sermon shortly after he led the Muslim congregation to observe the two Rakah obligatory prayers in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. He said that it was worrisome that those in government could not find solutions to the ongoing Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike.