Nigeria and Ethiopia have concluded arrangements to hold a Joint Ministerial Commission meeting in Addis Ababa, next month, where various areas of bilateral relationship and exchange perspectives on a range of international issues of mutual interest will form the crux of discussion. This followed President Muhammadu Buhari’s meeting, yesterday, with Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Dr. Abiy Ahmed, who was hosted to a state visit and presidential lunch attended by First Lady of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari and Ethiopian First Lady, Zinash Tayachew, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. During the meeting, the leaders of both countries agreed to take concrete steps to expand bilateral relations in key areas, including economy, trade, science and technology, solid minerals, among others. Nigeria’s Ambassador to Ethiopia, Victor Adeleke, spoke to newsmen, explaining the essence of the visit and the burgeoning state of relations between both countries. He said: ‘’The Ethiopian Prime Minister has always taken Nigeria as one of the pillars in Africa and a strong country in stabilising democracy in Africa. ‘’In the spirit of African brotherhood and seeking African solutions to African problems, President Buhari and the Prime Minister consult from time to time, and this visit is an icing on the cake. ‘’President Buhari has been in Addis Ababa a couple of times, so the Prime Minister thought it wise to visit Nigeria and confer with President Buhari en route to Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, for the humanitarian conference and the African Union Extraordinary Summit on Terrorism and Unconstitutional Changes of Government. ‘’The state of relations between Nigeria and Ethiopia is very warm. We are working together and we will soon be convening the Joint Ministerial Commission to discuss various areas of relationship that will be beneficial to both countries. ‘’Nigerian officials are heading to Addis Ababa in June to discuss various areas of relationship, including politics, economy, science and technology, mines and industry. We have been engaging and we will continue to engage.”