 Omawumi Last Sunday, the remaining contestants in the ongoing Nigerian Idol Season 7 performed yet again at another live show. This time, former Idol and award-winning singer, Omawumi returned as a guest judge. The top six opened the night with a beautiful rendition of Uptown Funk by Mark Ronson and Bruno Mars, and once again, each contestant showed why they truly belonged in the competition. In a sad twist, this season’s host, IK Osakioduwa, announced that the seventh live show would also be a double eviction. Simi’s ardent fan, Faith and baby dragon, Itohan, couldn’t secure enough votes to make it to the top four. The tension was high, and no one saw this new twist coming. Progress, Jordan, Zadok, and Banty made it to the top four with the ladies’ departure from the competition. Progress performed first with his cover of Johnny Drille’s Wait For Me, and all the judges expressed that they were proud of how he’s come in the competition. As always, the fan-favourite took the audience to church. Jordan was up next, and according to the Kokomaster, D’banj, he gave a classic performance of Fireboy’s Airplane Mode.
Zadok was the third to perform, and he gave an incredible performance of Timi Dakolo’s The Vow. According to Simi, his voice has character, and he always has a ‘romance’ with his microphone, making him a delight to watch. Banty was the last to perform, and she wrapped up the night with an impressive performance of Asa’s Bibanke and what an excellent rendition it was. She proved that she deserved the ‘last girl standing’ position with that song. Nigerian Idol Season 7 is down to the top four. The big question is – who will make it to the top three? The race continues next week, but only the viewers have the power to determine who makes it. The Nigerian Idol season 7 live shows have been fantastic! It’s been seven weeks of breathtaking performances from the top 12 and eight goodbyes. The musical face-off to claim the title of ‘Nigerian Idol’ is now down to Banty, Jordan, Progress and Zadok. Fans know that anything can happen on the show after Itohan and Faith’s shocking double eviction last Sunday, and it is now more important than ever to vote for their favourites. The eliminated eight all put their best foot forward, but they didn’t have enough votes to get them to the finish line. The top-four contestants have also brought their A-game on all fronts, giving us vocals, awe-inspiring performances and Vogue-worthy looks, but it is not enough to keep them in the show. The only way viewers can keep their favourite contestants on the show and get them closer to the ‘Nigerian Idol’ title is by voting for them. If you have not voted since the show started till date, then this break down is just what you need to throw your hat in the ring to save your favourite contestant. You can vote for your favourite contestants via the Mobile site, Website [africamagic.tv/nigerianidol], and the MyDStv or MyGOtv App. Register with your full name, year of birth, gender, location, and cell phone number before or during the voting round to vote on the website or mobile site. Active DStv subscribers in selected countries with an eligible package can vote for their favourite contestant via the MyDStv/MyGotv App. Voting opens every Sunday in conjunction with the on-air announcement and closes at 9 pm on Thursdays. Each active subscriber has 100 votes on the Mobile site and Website, but if you are a DStv subscriber with an eligible package in the selected countries and have the MyDStv or MyGOtv App, you can vote based on your package. Nigerian Idol season 7 is proudly sponsored by Bigi Drinks and Binance Africa.