Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu commends Ikeja Club Diana Osmond of Ikeja Golf Club, playing off handicap 8, last weekend, grossed 164 to beat Evelyn Oyome, also of Ikeja Golf Club, handicap 6, with 169 gross, to become the new champion of the third Lagos State First Lady Open Golf Championship held at the Ikeja Golf Club. The third position went to Lynda Obieze, also of Ikeja Golf Club, handicap 15, 171 gross, while Chichi Alamu, handicap 11, 173 gross, of the same club, took the fourth position. The well-attended championship had golfers from across the country fighting for the prizes and awards lined up for winners presented to other personalities and participants. Elated by the quality of competition at the tournament, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, commended the Ladies Section of the club for putting up a tournament geared towards youth and sports development. Represented by Tawa-Osinowo, wife of the Chairman, Agboh-Ketu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State and Dr. (Mrs.) Yemi Osanyintolu, during the opening and closing ceremony, said that the championship was in tune with the state’s commitment to supporting women and girls to foster a world of equal opportunity without gender imbalance. The First Lady expressed satisfaction with the championship, saying, “It is part of the numerous strategic interventions aimed at youth and sports development in the state. “It is also in line with Lagos State’s commitment to supporting women and girls, thereby, fostering an equal world where no gender is left behind. “It is, therefore, inspiring and commendable that the Ladies Section of Ikeja Golf Club is leading and focusing the right energy on motivating and encouraging junior golfers with the view to catching them young and imbibing the right spirit of excellence and greatness.” Apart from urging the youth to take the opportunity of the tournament to grow in the sport, she also admonished upcoming golfers to ensure their education does not suffer. “You must also take your education even more seriously and equally draw inspiration from great golfers, who making waves nationality and internationally,” she said. Earlier, Ikeja Golf Club’s Lady Vice Captain, Mrs. Busola Ladipo, thanked the First Lady for living up to her promise of supporting the championship’s return to the Ikeja Ladies golfing calendar after eight years of interregnum. The elated Lady Vice Captain, however, pleaded for more support from individuals and groups to ensure the continuity of the championship, saying it is aimed at developing golf with its attendant benefits to humanity. She thanked First Bank, Golf View, Expression and other sponsors for making the championship a success.