 Actor Amber Heard arrives in the courtroom at the Fairfax County Circuit Court in Fairfax, Va., Thursday, April 28, 2022. Actor Johnny Depp sued his ex-wife actor Amber Heard for libel in Fairfax County Circuit Court after she wrote an op-ed piece in The Washington Post in 2018 referring to herself as a “public figure representing domestic abuse.” (Michael Reynolds/Pool Photo via AP) Amber Heard’s legal team is ready to present the Aquaman’s actress testimonies. The 36-year-old’s legal team took off from the testimony of clinical and forensic psychologist Dawn Hughes. The psychologist had testified as an expert in abusive relationships in trials like that of R. Kelly which helped get convictions. Hughes alleges that Amber Heard was subjected to sexual abuse by Depp diagnosing the actress with post-traumatic stress disorder. Hughes, who will be examined Wednesday morning by Depp’s attorney, testified that she met Heard for 29 hours in September of 2019 but did not meet Depp. During that time, she did an objective evaluation of the actress. Hughes said in her testimony that upon her evaluation, Heard reported experiencing physical violence, psychological aggression, sexual violence, coercive control and being surveilled by Depp. Hughes proceeded with giving an account of a series of sexual violence that Amber Heard shared when they met, suggesting that there are therapy notes that match with Heard’s report. Johnny Depp and Amber Heard have been in a court countering each other’s claims of physical and verbal abuse. Hughes added she conducted a test to weigh the level of physical violence and psychological aggression that the estranged couples committed toward each. “What these tests show is that there was a high degree of serious violence perpetrated by Mr Depp toward Ms Heard. There was violence more on the mild level perpetrated by Ms Heard toward Mr Depp, with one severe indicator which was the punching that she indicated to me.” In her testimony, Hughes said, “Mr Depp engaged in more severe acts of psychological aggression, whereas Ms Heard engaged in mild and severe acts of psychological aggression.” She also added that Heard also experienced sexual violence while Depp did not face any violence. However, Depp’s team has insisted that Heard has been the abuser in the relationship with instances to prove their claims.