There is trepidation in the air. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has 15 cleared aspirants for the 2023 presidential election while the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), had 28 aspirants as of last Wednesday that was yet to be screened. The Young Progressives Party (YPP) already has a lady in the race and this is refreshing. One hopes there will still be more.
 
The world is yet to see the end of comic relief from Nigeria. The misconception that you don’t need a period of training or apprenticeship to run a country is totally erroneous. Governance, which is a complex mixture of arts and science, is more than what is being flung to the Nigerian people now. The Kennedys and the Bushes of the U.S. had to put their children in American universities at an early age in preparing them for eventual leadership. As Joe Biden told the press corps at a dinner two weeks ago, being the President of America is not a reality show.
 
Two points have already become crystal clear. The so-called hand-shake across the Niger between the people of the South East and South West has been shown for what it really is – a fragile razor-thin alliance. Otherwise, how can many stalwarts from the South West be in the race against the South-East whose unassailable arguments should make South East the zone of choice?  His philosophy based on Egbe Omo Oduduwa enabled him as leader of the Action Group to bestride the place like a colossus. He presided over the place like an emperor. The important point is that he delivered results. In the days of Chief Awolowo, who would raise a finger if he desired anything unlike now when many young men are literally poking their fingers into Senator Bola Tinubu’s eyes? How the times are changing.
 
Had Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe agreed to include a secession clause in the pre-independence constitution, it is likely Western Nigeria would have left Nigeria and by now would be competing with the people of the Western World. The same is true of the South East. What would have been left is bigger than many countries in the world.  One of the most important recommendations was that the presidency is rotated between the six geopolitical zones until such a time that Nigerians agree that meritocracy should take over. The idea of six geopolitical zones was the product of cerebral thinking by the late vice president Alex Ekwueme. The National Party of Nigeria (NPN) later adopted it and the position of the President of the Senate was zoned to the South East. That provision produced Evan Enwerem, Adolphus Wabara and Chuba Okadigbo. Had the framers of the 1999 constitution, which we currently use, done some background work, rotational presidency as recommended by the Justice Tobi panel might have been incorporated and all the current fight about zoning and non-zoning would be unnecessary.  In those days, what we could afford was a Solex motorbike to get to afternoon practical work at Abadina. Now the President of the national student body rides a Range Rover and travels in convoy. Who is buying the petrol? Why is it that the Trade Unions and Students Unions have not seriously addressed the fact that ex-governors who are now Senators, earn double salaries, one as pension from their states after eight years’ work and also collect the mind-boggling salaries and allowances Nigerian parliamentarians go home with. What example of open thievery can be more classical than this?
 
No amount of prayers for ‘Nigeria in Distress’ will save this country. We need a lot of action from the entire citizenry. Dr. Mbadiwe, a former member of the House of Representatives, writes from Abuja. 