Residents of Apapa road and Ebutte Metta, in Lagos State, have protested a 32- day power outage by Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), Lagos.
  
The residents, under the aegis of Concerned Community Development Associations (CDAs), staged a peaceful rally on major streets and submitted a protest letter to the EKEDC District Manager in the area.  We even pay heavily for the epileptic power supply, because we are not metered and so, high bills are dished out on us.”  “When EKEDC brings electricity for three days, within those days, they will bring bills and make sure residents pay for the bills, then the residents will be on blackout for 27 days. “So, when they brought the last bills, we rejected them because we cannot continue to pay for what we did not consume. “Honestly, there is no justification for the bills when there was no supply throughout the month of February. “So, we are thinking they may still bring bills this month despite the outage, that is why we came out to protest, we do not want a repeat of last month’s situation,” Taiwo said.
 
A civil servant with Lagos State Government, who resides at Thomas Street, Ebute-Metta, Mrs. Funke Ilori, called on officials of the company to remove their cables from the poles since they no longer supply power to them.  ALSO, residents of Oke-Afa, Oshodi, Maryland and some areas under the Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) have complained of an epileptic power supply despite paying exorbitantly for the scarce supply.
   
The residents complained that oftentimes IKEDC sends messages such as: “The current supply interruption is as a result of fault on the feeder supplying your vicinity. Our Engineers are currently working to resolve this. Please be assured that the supply will be restored as soon as the fault is cleared.
  
“Dear Customer, the outage you are experiencing is due to load shedding by Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). Please be assured that your supply would be restored as soon as this is over. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. Thank you for allowing us to serve you.”  “No business thrives when money owed is not paid. “Also, they refused our staff access into their community to carry out their legitimate duties, which is unacceptable. “We have had a series of meetings with them. We are surprised at the protest, which does not favour either side.  