• Charges leaders on sober reflections
• Olawuyi, Sanwo-Olu, others, assure Nigerians of peaceful nation The Methodist Church Nigeria has charged Nigerian leaders in authority on the prompt need for a sober reflection of the nation’s current socio-economic situation, more importantly the worsening insecurity nationwide. Prelate Emeritus of the church, His Eminence, Dr. Sunday Ola Makinde, made the remark at the 2022 yearly synod thanksgiving service of the Diocese of Lagos, Methodist Church Nigeria, hosted by the Wesley Church, Araromi Lagos Circuit. Besides, he called for a very needful sacrificial service to God and mankind. The retired Prelate passionately pleaded with all Nigerians and the residents alike, to go back to the basics, especially with the utmost fear of God and the complete and absolute concern to the plight of the teeming suffering masses, whereby God would look down on the nation’s position and return her to her glorious past of vibrant and socio-economic recovery among the comity of the very highly respected nations globally. He berated the “do-or-die” battle syndrome to grab political power at the extent of discipline, honesty and the fear of God, among others, which has led the nation to her present unfortunate situation and challenges. To this end, he urged a very disciplined and sober reflection with a view to providing the much needed all-round relief and succour as promised by them in their hitherto political campaign but which they unfortunately reneged on their assumption of power of office. SIMILARLY, Archbishop of Lagos Methodist Church Nigeria, Most Revd. (Dr.) Isaac Ayobami Olawuyi; Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, represented by Special Assistant to the Governor on Christians Affairs, The Very Revd. Bukola Adeleke, as well as the Lay President, Diocese on Lagos Methodist Church Nigeria, Sir Olugbolahan Olayomi, among others, have assured Nigerians that God will completely turnaround the nation gloriously through regular prayers, as well as their complete, remorseful approach to God and others. In addition, they urged genuine justice and equity for the nation’s common wealth to go round, especially to the unfortunate common masses. They made these remarks at the 60th yearly synod of the diocese of Lagos Methodist Church Nigeria in Lagos. Besides, they lamented the unfortunate economic doldrums, social insecurity, as well as the decadent socio-economic situation nationwide.