Global Director of International Recruitment, Aston University, Birmingham, United Kingdom, Mr Matt Dean, has emphasised the importance of students gaining work experience, while still studying in the university, saying it gives them a step ahead in the job market. Dean, who spoke at the Aston University alumni party held at the Radisson Blue Hotel, Ikeja, said the main goal of the institution is to give its students best opportunities to get quality degree as well as become employable. He explained that Aston’s  focus was on offering quality courses in business, engineering, health, mathematics, sciences and social sciences. He said: “In all our courses, we offer placement opportunities. If you are an undergraduate student, that means you can work for one year as part of your degree programme, study for two years, do one year work placement and then do your final year.  So, it gives you both academic skills and ability to get some work experience. It gives you the step ahead in the job market; we all know it is a very competitive job market. It is not good enough to have just your academic qualification; you also need skills. “We don’t just offer that for undergraduate students, we also offer it for post- graduate students. We give them the opportunity to gain some work experience depending on their programme and what they want to do. Again, it gives them the step up in the job market. With graduate immigration, there is so much demand, lots of students now want to go to the UK, so, students really need to think about what is going to give them the edge when they are applying for jobs, what is going to make them more employable,” Dean said. Talking on the affordability of the school, Dean said the university offers scholarship opportunities to students, adding that they spend over £3 million to cover scholarship costs. “Each year, we spend over £2 million  to cover scholarship costs across the globe, not just in Nigeria. Actually, we have increased it this year by another million, so, it has gone up to £3 million pounds. “So, for Nigerian students studying with us, they can enjoy between £3,000 to £10,500 pounds scholarship,” he stated. On his part, Regional Manager, Africa, Babajide Ogundeji, said Aston University is expanding its reach in Africa, focusing on Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya, while also working closely with Nigerian universities. According to him, the institution has produced many Nigerian graduates. He said:  “We are looking for the right students, those who really want to learn, who are willing to impact on their community and willing to achieve better things for themselves.” 