• Presidency not for highest bidder, says Fayemi
• Northern group drums support for Wike Former Governor of Lagos State and All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, has urged the party’s delegates in Kaduna to support his presidential bid. While expressing confidence that he will clinch the APC ticket, Tinubu, who met the delegates led by Governor Nasir el-Rufai at the Murtala Square, yesterday, said he was not oblivious of the many jostlers for the ticket. He, however, advised them to follow him because he knows the road to the Villa. The APC national leader, amid ovation from the delegates, said: “Some may be running, I don’t know where they are running to; but for me, I am going to the Villa and I will be there, insha Allah.” BUT another APC presidential aspirant, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, said the presidency is not reserved for the richest among the citizenry. Speaking after his endorsement by Governor Muhammad Yahaya of Gombe State for the exalted seat, Fayemi cited the backgrounds of all those that had administered the country to buttress his assertions. He admitted not being the richest among the aspirants, but boasted of the wherewithal to take the country to greater heights, if voted into office in the 2023 poll. “History has shown us that the richest or children of the richest had never ruled Nigeria. Tafawa Balewa was a teacher, Shehu Shagari was a headmaster, Olusegun was Obasanjo broke when he left prison and Umaru Yar’Adua was a university teacher. Goodluck Jonathan had no shoes and, of course, we know the background of our current president. What Nigeria needs are education, capacity, energy and experience, which I have in abundance,” he said. MEANWHILE, the North East Youth Ambassadors for Wike (NEYAW) has drummed support for presidential aspiration of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to the group, the support for Wike’s aspiration was to rescue the country from APC’s ineptitude. Speaking in Maiduguri, Borno State, yesterday, NEYAW’s Coordinator/Publicity Secretary, Ishaku Yakubu, noted: “We’ve witnessed hardships, poverty and unemployment across the country since 2015.” The youth ambassadors are drawn from the grassroots of the region, comprising Borno, Bauchi, Gombe, Taraba, Adamawa and Yobe states, he added. “We are ready to go into the nooks and crannies of the region to mobilise votes for Wike at the presidential poll.” 