Download logo Digital Afrique Telecom (DAT) (www.DigitalAfriqueTelecom.com), a pan-african leader in digital services, n development, aggregation and hosting of mobile value-added services has partnered today with Ever Medical Technologies, a medical technology solutions provider to facilitate, improve and disseminate digital medical solutions across the continent.  Africa is growing fast, urbanizing, and industrializing. Every country in Africa is working to close the gap on infrastructure. A major part of these efforts is in modernising the healthcare systems. Digital Afrique Telecom is a major player with a wealth of experience in selling and implementing technology solutions in Africa with customers in 20 countries on the continent. Likewise, Ever Medical Technology is a vibrant medical technology company implementing the latest technological advances in cloud and blockchain solutions in Healthcare institutions in Southeast Asia and the United States of America. Ever Medical Technologies provide a full suite of software solutions for the healthcare industry of digital healthcare including Electronic Healthcare Records applications, healthcare interoperability solutions through a blockchain based health information exchange, data mining and machine learning applications, telemedicine and telepharmacy applications. Ever Medical Technologies is the perfect platform to allow insurance companies, clinics, hospitals, and governments to seamlessly and rapidly advance their customers journey and ease back-office processes. This new partnership is actively coming to life with roadshows starting in 4 countries namely Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, Nigeria and Botswana. These roadshows will gradually be expanding to the rest of the continent within a year. Companies operating in these countries in the insurance and healthcare industry are invited to quickly connect with Digital Afrique Telecom for the benefit of their customers. Ever Medical Technologies innovative solutions will naturally maximise efficicency, reduce waste and lower cost for hospitals, patients and payers. Simplice Anoh, CEO of DAT declared “The Africa healthcare system needs to be modernised. We are proud to participate in accelerating that process through technology with our world class solutions provider with proven track records which can solve challenges for the healthcare industry across Africa. At DAT, we pride ourselves to activate the digital revolution in Africa technology platforms through innovation and we believe Ever is instrumental in achieving this for the healthcare system” Bhunusich Chomanan, CEO of Ever Medical Technologies, commented on the partnership “We are extremely pleased to join forces with DAT to offer our cutting-edge medical technologies solutions to Africa. Modernising healthcare systems across the globe lies at the heart of our mission and vision and Africa is a continent which cannot be left behind” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Digital Afrique Telecom. Contact :
Philippe DIOMAN
Directeur Marketing et Communication
Email : pdioman@groupedigital.com Scott Gray
Directeur du Business Development
Email : scott@everapp.io About Digital Afrique Telecom:
With a presence in more than 20 African countries, Digital Afrique Telecom (DAT) is a digital services company (ESN) in Africa and a consulting company in digital transformation of companies and organizations. Digital Afrique Telecom (DAT) offers consulting and technology services (systems integration, infrastructure management, business process execution). Digital Afrique Telecom is a pan-African leader in consulting and digital services, specializing in integration, software development, aggregation, hosting of value-added services and the sale of mobile and fintech solutions such as PayLink. Working with major industry players such as Airtel, MTN, Etisalat and Orange, Digital Afrique Telecom addresses a market of 110 million mobile subscribers and has access to over 40 mobile operators in Africa. Its local presence and excellent knowledge of local needs in each market are valuable assets. Acting as an accelerator of change, DAT provides reliable and tailored technology services to various sectors such as health, education and financial services. Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)www.DigitalAfriqueTelecom.com About Ever Medical Technologies:
Ever Medical Technologies is forging a future of technology-driven healthcare built around patient data ownership and physician workflows. By prioritizing patient privacy and self-sovereignty, we’re enabling greater interoperability, transparency, and efficiency to wholly modernize the medical industry. We’ve also worked closely with experienced, industry-leading pioneers to create tools that allow physicians full focus on their patients without distraction. Together, cutting-edge solutions lay the foundations for a future alight with data-driven medical breakthroughs on an unprecedented scale.