Lagos State is working on a programme that will help the state discover and nurture talented children to stardom in the sport, wife of the state governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has said. Dr. Sanwo-Olu, who was the guest of honour at the just-concluded Lagos First Lady Open Golf Championship, described the competition as part of the projects aimed at building a golf culture in the state, adding that more of such grassroots development competitions are in the pipeline. Represented by Tawa-Osinowo, wife of the Chairman Agboh-Ketu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State and Dr. (Mrs.) Yemi Osanyintolu during the opening and closing ceremonies, she said that the championship was in tune with the state’s commitment towards supporting women and girls to foster a world of equal opportunity without gender imbalance. She added: “The current crop of players are getting older and there is need to groom their successors and the First Lady Open Championship is one of the ways to groom the younger ones. “It is part of the numerous strategic interventions aimed at youth and sports development in the state. It is also in line with Lagos State’s commitment to supporting women and girls, thereby, fostering an equal world where no gender is left behind. “It is, therefore, inspiring and commendable that the Ladies Section of Ikeja Golf Club is leading and focusing the right energy on motivating and encouraging junior golfers with the view to catching them young and imbibing the right spirit of excellence and greatness.” Apart from urging the youth to take the opportunity provided by the tournament to grow in the sport, she also admonished upcoming golfers to ensure their education does not suffer. “You must also take your education even more seriously and equally draw inspiration from great golfers, who are making waves nationally and internationally,” she said. The well-attended championship had golfers from across the country fighting for the prizes and awards lined up for winners presented to other personalities and participants. Diana Osmond of Ikeja Golf Club, playing off handicap 8, last weekend, grossed 164 to beat Evelyn Oyome, also of Ikeja Golf Club, handicap 6, with 169 gross, to become the new champion of the third Lagos State First Lady Open Golf Championship held at the Ikeja Golf Club. The third position went to Lynda Obieze, also of Ikeja Golf Club, handicap 15, 171 gross, while Chichi Alamu, handicap 11, 173 gross, of the same club, took the fourth position.