The president Nigerians want, by ADC aspirant Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Peter Obi, has promised Nigerians purposeful leadership if elected president next year. Speaking to PDP delegates in Jigawa State at the state’s party secretariat, the former governor of Anambra State said the country is on the verge of collapse. His words: “Things have fallen apart. Our economy has been basterdised. The value of our currency keeps depreciating unabated and unchecked. We must do something very urgent to rescue the country from drifting. The only way to achieve this is for us to elect a credible and committed leader. Obi assured that his  leadership will rebirth the country with the support of experts and expertise of technocrats. He added: “My presidential aspiration was full of articulated vigour, effective and coordinated work plan for a functioning Nigeria through the reinvigoration of most of our collapsed public institutions. “If smaller Asian countries with lesser sources could boast of technological transformation in agro-allied industries and export various mineral deposits, I see no reason Nigeria, with its vast arable land and availability of locally-sourced raw materials, could not borrow a leaf in becoming a manufacturing and exporting nation? Lack of purposeful leadership forced us to remain backward as a consuming nation.” ANOTHER presidential aspirant, Chukwuka Monye, has said that most Nigerians are yearning for a vibrant and young president that is capable of tackling the myriad challenges facing the country. Speaking on Sunday night at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) secretariat in Bauchi State, the African Democratic Congress (ADC) stalwart lamented that successive Nigerian governments relegated the youth to the background with little budget for them. despite that the younger generation accounts for a larger population. The 43-year-old Delta State-born technocrat, who identified with the younger generation, said his ability to create job opportunities constituted his unique selling points. He said: “If you ask anybody on the street today what type of president they want, they would tell you ‘someone new, someone different and young.’ That is what you will hear. One of the things that I bring to the table is that newness and freshness. I represent a generation that is not really represented in government today.” 