Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) President, Uyi Akpata, was one of the fans at the maiden ‘Legends Cup’ hosted by the Oyo State Cricket Association last weekend at the Liberty Stadium. The event, aimed at honouring four cricket legends, including Mr. Ogie Omololu Alakija, Professor Jide Bademosi, Dr. Kolade Mosuro and Mr. Adebola Ogunsina, also served as the state’s league opener. Played on a round robin format, Team Alakija met Team Mosuro in the final after three-round of matches. In the entertaining 10 overs final, Team Alakija avenged their group stage loss to Team Mosuro by defeating their opponents by 23 runs. Captain Samson Adebayo’s decision to bat first paid off as his team posted 75 runs in 10 overs. In the second innings, Captain Miracle Ikaige’s hope of completing a double over Team Alakija was halted as they were restricted to 48 runs. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Akpata applauded the decision of Oyo State Cricket Association to honour and appreciate cricket legends, while they are still alive.  He also commended the players for putting up a spectacular showing, which was pleasing to the eyes. “There are brilliant performances and some players here have proven they deserve a better platform to prove their skills further. I believe the skills here and ones that the League would nurture and throw up are capable of making some impact at the national stage. The passion here is on a different level,” he said. Mr. Akpata disclosed there were plans to make the Liberty Cricket Oval in Oyo State a turf wicket, adding that discussions are also ongoing with the Ministry of Youth and Sports for concessioning of the cricket pitch. At the end of tournament, Alex Ihenwokelem of Team Mosuro was awarded the best fielder of the event, while his teammate, Fayomi Maxwell, bagged the bowler award. Other awardees at the two-day event were Kofoworola Lukman and Adebayo Samson, both of Team Alakija. They won the best Wicketkeeper and batter respectively, while Adebayo Samson won the Man of the Series award. Present at the closing ceremony were former Governor of Oyo State, Chief Omololu Olunloyo; South West Representative on the Nigeria Cricket Federation Board, Mr. Tayo Atoloye; coach of U-19 male team, Oboh Omogui; former National Team Player, Oluwaseun Odeku; and another former national team player, Okon Ukpong, among others. 