A major breakthrough has been made by the Special Tactical Squad (STS) of the Police High Command as no fewer than 21 suspects have been arrested for kidnapping, armed robbery and sundry crimes. The suspects were paraded by the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali, who was represented by the Force  Public Relations Officer, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Olumuyiwa Adejobi. Adejobi said the suspects were arrested in connection with offences, ranging from conspiracy, kidnapping, armed robbery, culpable homicide, rape and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms. According to him, 40 AK47 assault rifles, eight types 06 AK rifles, four Light Assault Rifles (LAR), 1 G3 rifle, 1 AK 49 assault rifle, four pump-action shotguns, 1 dane gun, cash sum of  N2million, 310 AK 47 ammunition (7.62 x 39mm), 66 assorted ammunition (8.5mm), two chains and four padlocks were recovered from the suspects. “Six of the suspects arrested for alleged criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, rape, and unlawful possession of a firearm are from Mubi, Adamawa State. They are Abubakar Mohammed, 28, Shehu Mohammed, 38, Abdullahi  Ali, 30, Abubakar Ali, 18, and Hussaini Sule, 18. “The suspects are a six-man trans-border crime syndicate,  who carry out kidnapping operations in Adamawa State and in Burha, Fituha and Kesu, Cameroon. They commenced operations in May 2021 and confessed to having carried out at least nine operations. “They revealed they had a motorcyclist (Okada rider), who acts as their pointer and gives them information on potential kidnap victims. Their targets are usually individuals who are wealthy or possess beautiful houses or cars. “The gang in April kidnapped a newly wedded woman in Askira Uba L.G.A, Borno State, gang-raped her multiple times, and equally obtained a ransom of N1 million from her family before she was released. “They also confessed to the kidnap of one Alhaji  Moni of Buladega village, Mubi LGA on May 10, 2022. They collected a ransom of an N2million from him before their arrest on May  11  in Mubi. They were apprehended by FIB-STS operatives, who have been on their trail. Efforts are ongoing to apprehend their cohorts who are currently at large.” According to him, two of the suspects were nabbed for criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, being in possession of unlawful, prohibited firearms and culpable homicide punishable with death. “The suspects, Umar Muhammed, 40 years from Mitchika L.G.A, Adamawa State and  Musa Buba, 29, from Hong LGA, Adamawa State confessed to the crime and two AK47 rifles were recovered from them,” Adejobi stated. 