MOJEC Meter Asset Management Company (M3AC) has partnered the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) to meter interested customers in 24 hours through the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) programme. The programme is a continuation of phase two of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)-approved MAP’ initiative, created on the mantra ‘metering at your doorstep’. The initiative is aimed at consolidating the rigorous general meter installation process that includes know your customers (KYC), survey, payment, acquisition and installation under 24 to 48 hours. Team Lead, M3AC, Titilope Oyelade, disclosed this during the launch of the scheme at the Sango business unit. He said the mobile MAP initiative would run in the next two months across the various business units of the distribution companies (DisCos) who M3AC currently partners with. “Each DisCo is expected to meter at least 100,000 customers under the initiative,” she stated. She added that M3AC initiated the Mobile MAP scheme as a response to persistent calls by consumers who want pre-paid meters to save them from the menace of estimated billings and other under-table dealings they consider extorting. Oyelade explained that the process of meter acquisition has been so simplified that all interested customers need to do is register via Disco’s website. She hinted that there would be over 10,000 meters available to be given out monthly to customers at the Sango Ota axis and that the exercise would be a continuous one for consumers who are ready for metering. She said the meters are taken directly to the consumers, as they want to protect them from being extorted under any guise – a reason the prices of the meters are declared in all communication. ‘’Under the Mobile MAP scheme, the approved NERC prices for meters are N63, 061.32 for single-phase and N117, 910.69 for three-phase (VAT inclusive), and the prices cover the cost of meters and installation,” she stated. IBEDC Business Manager, Sango Unit, Olujide Odutuyo, said the company partnered M3AC because of its desire to make pre-paid meters available to all consumers for accurate billing. MOJEC partnered with nine DisCos to spread the Mobile MAP scheme across Nigeria.