 Wemimo Iyiola Samson, popularly known as Linomrlion One of the most difficult social issues the human race has found no cure to is racism. People just chose to be incurable and judge or mock others by the colour of their skin. It is a common sight in developed societies to see people verbally and physically assaulted in public places, and Turkey-based Nigerian comedian, Wemimo Iyiola Samson, better known as LinoMrlion, has had a taste of the monstrous prejudice perpetrated by individuals who are not fit to be human beings. LinoMrlion is one of Nigeria’s most popular skit makers, recently shared how he deals with the scourge each time he encounters unpleasant individuals who direct racist comments at him. “Whenever I encounter racism, I just laugh it off. One thing is to be mocked, another thing is to let it get to you. During my secondary school days, I do call a guy ‘blacky’, another ‘monkey’, another ‘Badagry coconut head’. Did that make them fight? Not at all, we all laugh about it. “So, if you abuse me racially, I will just laugh at you, by that you inevitably become my friend. I am a black boy with a white wife. By and large, say no to racism,” said LinoMrlion. The comic act keeps churning Nigeria-flavoured top-notch content from the European country to keep entertaining his expanding fan base. There has been a disturbing trend of celebrity marriage crashes in the Nigerian entertainment industry. However, LinoMrlion pointed out that it does not scare him. The humourist, who is known for his slang “it is finished” in his comedy videos, opined that majority of his colleagues jump into marriage without the mental readiness. “Does the fact that celebrity relationships or marriages crash on regular basis scare me? Not at all. “Celebrities are humans, so their marital lives are no exemptions. What I notice is that most of them jump into marriage and rush out of it without little or no counselling. We have seen some work and there is no reason why celebrity marriages should not work,” LinoMrlion stated. He added: “Both parties must be ready to toe the line of counselling and sacrifice that characterize regular marriages. I’m already into one and I am really enjoying my marriage. There is nothing to be afraid of in marriage. I am a loyal husband.” 