And so the student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, was killed publicly in a most gruesome manner by her fellow students. The students were zealous for their God who could not defend Himself from the ‘insult’ of Deborah Samuel. Allah is most omniscient, most powerful, and mighty, we have been told. He humbles the strong and exults the lowly. He knows the beginning and the end. But by the action of the killer mob they seemed to question Allah’s invincibility and capacity to defend Himself. And if He could not defend Himself from the girl, therefore, the thugs and killers masquerading as students reasoned, they had to do it for Him. And they were proud of the murder that they had just committed. They filmed it and showed their faces – every step of the way. They knew that the reward was not only in heaven, but here on earth too.   There were people, very powerful people who would call them into their homes and bless them for their deed and assure them of a place in paradise for beating, stoning, bludgeoning, and burning a human being, their fellow classmate to death – all because they perhaps think that the Almighty Allah cannot defend Himself. You will know how powerful the dangerous human elements involved in this most gruesome of murders are by the taciturnity and silence of influential people up north over this deed. They will say nothing and do nothing, for the simple reason that the wilful killing of Deborah in such a foul and heinous manner is neither the first nor will it be the last in the north. But this is how they keep the simple and lowly, the hoi-poloi and commoners happy – get them drunk on false religious narratives while they rob them blind and steal their future. But mind you, the manipulation of religion for the benefit of the few is not a northern phenomenon only.
 
They have their version in the southern part of Nigeria, as self-declared ‘men of God’ constantly manipulate their ways into the pockets of the foolish and unwary, often using false talking points and fake miracles to mersmerize and confuse, sometimes setting brothers against brothers, sisters against sisters and parents against children. But there is a red line that they do not cross for the simple reason that scripture explicitly forbids revenge and vengeance on one’s behalf and, especially, on God’s behalf:
 
“Friends, do not avenge yourselves; instead, leave room for God’s wrath, because it is written, Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay, says the Lord”  But beware – for the great and most powerful Imam of the Abuja Central Mosque, Professor Ibrahim Magari, has weighed in on the matter and sounded a note of warning to everyone about the great red line that must never be crossed against Muslims otherwise Armageddon will be visited on violators. So, let us shake in our boots and hide under the bed because the Chief Imam has spoken thus. He is happy with the murder of Deborah and has said so.   Perhaps he would have been happier had Deborah’s parents also tasted the fury of the mob for bringing such a blasphemous child into the world.
 
It is believed that the great professor and Chief Imam of the Abuja Central Mosque will not suffer the same fate as the Chief Imam of the Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque, Sheikh Muhammad Nuru Khalid who was recently removed from his post for criticizing the president for the insecurity and sufferings in the country. Criticizing the president would seem to be a far more egregious crime than the cold blooded and gruesome public lynching of a young girl. 