‘When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation.’
Matthew Chapter 12 verses 43 to 45 Anyone that is conversant with the proactive military expedition guidelines and precepts will not find it difficult to identify the station and significance of our preferred topic under discussion. It actually carries spiritual significance as well as secular bearings. The fast-approaching general election in Nigeria comes in 2023 and its pertaining affairs, have now claimed the attention of not just our media boardrooms personnel, but indeed enthralled members of the public particularly the concerned citizens, this time, members of the electorate. Realising that polls are often accused of creating a bandwagon effect of benefitting their candidates, the strategic and ambitious aspirants do not commit an error in engaging such disarming stunts to the opponents ahead of the election proper. However, it will be delusionary to limit the basic criteria and qualities for winning landslide victory at the next general elections to mere knowing the shortcut scheme and subtleties for grabbing electoral triumph or upper hand. The fundamental and remarkable prerequisites or landmark antecedence that will grant any ambitious presidential candidate sure success in this onerous race is combined experience, and capacity, namely having the installed capability and the courage to initiate and execute the needed actions. This calls for purposeful and proper political leadership. Let it be noted that the Nigerian people who are united in subjugation, and deprivation, and bear the brunt of our leaders’ ineptitude leadership have risen to make a clean, compassionate, decent, sensitive, upright yet radical and revolutionary entreaty to their would-be next national leader. Creative and innovative ideas distribution, knowledge acquisition demands, self-improvement efforts, creation of vocational skills acquisition centres, advancement of one’s horizon, the pursuit of innovative solutions, and endorsement of the creative destruction phenomenon cannot be isolated from wealth creation, rapid development and success story reality. Any national leader that has the charisma and aura to synergise forces across the federation and gather leaders of like-mind disposed to creating the enabling environment for the above-listed aspirations to flourish is hereby endorsed to carry Nigeria and Nigerians across the bridge. The very aspirant or candidate and whose political party manifestoes, mission statement roundly reflects the above listed workable projects and those to be highlighted later, and who is unmindful of his or her political persuasions, religious affiliations, ethnic, regional, and economic identities must be crowned with the mantle of the Nigerian president In the delivery of democratic dividends, a mechanism must be set up at the behest of the enlightened people of the country. The days are long gone when our politicians employed coy dispositions and dispassionate conduct, especially when grave political matters affecting the lives of the people are raised. Nigeria and Nigerians deserve to be led by men of relentless dedication to set principles. We abhor the deplorable existence of self-centered, sit-tight career political plunderers, and parasites, who are also myopic, ill-educated, antagonistic, real development-phobic gangsters, and retrogressive cabals. These are the categories of national leaders that George Washington was referring to when he said, “men could never be trusted to act with any degree of altruism.” And I venture to add equity, sense, and sincerity of purpose, vigour, and servant-leadership (exemplary) principles. Nigerians are not silly and stupid. Once they are provided with proactive, practical, and professional political leadership cum solution, which gives them a clear path to prosperity and security for themselves and their families, they will simply align with the leaders. A great deal of proactive restructuring of the entire state of national affairs, that will factor in the people’s individual and corporate developmental strategy geared towards innovation, enduring improvement trajectory, and thirst for advancement is highly recommended. We are tired of being tired. And as a former United States President once said: “The only thing we should fear is fear.” Some definite steps and tasks necessarily need to be taken by the Nigerian government if we must overcome the current massive erosion of interest, value, and support that is pervading the nation’s lifeblood. One outstanding, yet outlandish ill-achievement of this outgoing administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, is to have successfully crumbled the national magnificent structure, metaphorically speaking. A region in the country has not been allowed to occupy the number one position in the country’s political arena since 1966. Yet, by all means, possible and righteous evaluations, that region is rated by international bodies as the fastest developing enclave, where its people depend on their rare ethnic potential for economic and social rapid growth. Therefore, it is an easy way to identify them using this weeping indicator. Doesn’t Nigeria need to tap into this tremendous wealth of capacity, jettison partisan, yet passionless politicking, and embrace the internally available source of respite, and recovery from our morass system? God bless Nigeria and especially Nigerians. • Orajiaku is a Social Activist 