It is the gathering of some of the best golfers in the country at the Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Club, Lagos and the prize is enticing. The occasion is the national finals of the World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC), which runs from today to Sunday, with players vying for honours, including the ticket to represent the country at the world finals of the competition. To ensure that players and fans coming to watch the event have an unforgettable experience, the organisers have aligned with their major sponsors, Pepsi and Singleton from the Guinness stable, among others, to put together a fantastic show. WCGC is the largest World Corporate Golf Tournament in the world and Falcon Golf Development Company (Falcon Golf) is the events franchise holder in Nigeria. According to the organisers, Pepsi is offering their celebrity disc jockey, DJ Scratch, and the renowned Storm Band to cool the evenings with light music, while Guinness is providing Singleton single malt whiskey to make the 2022 WCGC an event to remember. Also in this elite class of WCGC sponsors are NCDMB, Henley & Partners, Banwo & Ighodalo, Geregu Power, PwC, OVH Energy, First E&P, Dradrock Real Estate, GTi Capital, Oando Resources, Rwanda Air, Multistream Power Options, J. Lindeberg, 2sure, Captain Morgan, Dubic Malt, Royal Electronics from Sims Nigeria, Lagoon Hospital and Supersport. According to the Falcon Golf’s Chief Executive Officer, Remi Olukoya, “The national finals is a must play for discerning golfers.” He promised: “It will be a WCGC with a difference, a unique tournament reminiscent of the world finals itself. This event is not an event any golfer should miss. We will offer value for every penny spent in this event, so both sponsors and players are in for a great outing.” Justifying the choice of Lakowe Lakes as host of this year’s event, Olukoya said the need to give golfers quality facility and a memorable golfing experience informed the choice, noting that apart from the course action, there would be other several side attractions. He also disclosed that Lakowe Lakes Hospitality is offering several apartments from one to four bedrooms to participants and friends at generous discounts for the period. “We want to change the way golf is played in Nigeria by adding so much more. Apart from the course actions, we will be offering other side attractions to keep golfers entertained throughout the competition,” Olukoya said, adding that art exhibition, fashion show and cultural display, among others, will add spice to the show. Apart from Pepsi and Guinness’ Singleton, other sponsors of the three-day event are Henley & Partners, NCDMB, Banwo & Ighodalo, Geregu Power plc, OVH Energy, Guinness Diageo, Rwanda Airlines, First Exploration & Petroleum Development Company, Multistream Power Options Ltd and J. Linderberg.