Confusion has greeted the three-man delegates National Assembly (NASS) primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State, following the absence of Dr. Tony Nwoye and Valentine Ozigbo, who are regarded as main rivals in the Anambra North and South Senatorial District races. Nwoye’s absence raised eyebrows, making pundits believe their opponents may have hijacked the process. Ozigbo, who is seeking the PDP ticket to challenge Ifeanyi Ubah of Young Progressive Party (YPP), did not show up at yesterday’s three-man delegates’ primary for House of Representatives and senatorial aspirants of the PDP.   Both of them were at the PDP state headquarters, Awka, on Tuesday, when the three-man delegates’ primary for the state House of Assembly was fixed, but allegedly hijacked. Their absence did not stop the Chairman of the panel, Augustine Efere, assisted by the Secretary, Godwin Obiata, to supervise the conduct of the National Assembly exercise at the Professor Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, Awka. It was gathered that the House of Representatives and senatorial primaries were held simultaneously yesterday. Though, PDP held the senatorial primary, yesterday, to avoid its clash with the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) sit-at-home order, it was gathered that the order may not hold as the presiding Judge, Justice Binta Nyako, may have adjourned the trial of the IPOB’s leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, to June 26, this year. The Guardian checks revealed that the organisers of the NASS primary shifted the venues of I4 local councils, seven in each of Anambra North and South councils, to Awka, due to incessant killings, kidnappings and arson in the two zones. As at the time of filing the report, delegates from Oyi Local Council were not yet accredited to participate due to controversy generated by the identity of the panel membership for the area. In an interview, a chieftain of the party, Ngozi Agudosi, said: “This delegates election is costing our party a lot of money; but we have to do it for the safety of our party members. It would have been held in the various local councils, but you know the state of security in many communities in Anambra.” “In most communities in Anambra, you can not even hold family meetings, let alone election. Even Ogbaru, in Anambra North Senatorial zone is not safe. “We wrote to the national leadership of the party to grant us the permission for Anambra North and South Senatorial zones to hold their election in Awka, and they granted.”