There is confusion within the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) following the release of elections timetable for political activities and fees for Expression of Interest (EoI) and nomination forms for various elective offices, leading to the 2023 general elections, by a factional National Chairman of the party, Edozie Njoku. The Guardian learnt that each of the aspirants for the office of the president is expected to pay the sum of N5 million and N45 million as EoI and nomination fees totalling N50 million. An aspirant for the senate seat, it was gathered, is to pay N2 million and N5 million, totaling N7 million, to pick the EoI and nomination forms. For the House of Representatives’ ticket of the party, an aspirant will have to pay the sum of NI million and N3 million respectively, amounting to N4 million for the EoI and nomination forms. According to a statement issued by Okoro Benedict, and made available to newsmen, yesterday, an aspirant for the governorship position is expected to pay N2 million and N8 million, adding up to NI0 million, for both forms. For the state House of Assembly seats, aspirants are to pay the sum of N500,000 and NI million, totaling NI.5 million to procure the forms. The Guardian checks revealed that the move by Njoku’s faction was coming on the hills of the claims that the Supreme Court of Nigeria has reviewed its judgement, which it earlier gave in favour of Victor Oye’s camp on October 14, 2021. Eneh Chigozie, had in a post that went viral, claimed: “In the said judgement, the Supreme Court, delivering ruling on the appeal filed by Jude Okeke against the judgement of the Appeal Court, Kano Division, stated that the removal of Oye was not justifiable, that it was the internal affairs of the party and, thereby, struck out the appeal. “It was on this basis that INEC recognised Oye and allowed Prof. Chukwuma Soludo as the candidate of the party for November 6, Anambra governorship election.” But on Monday, the Supreme Court sat again to review the judgment. Njoku had written to the Supreme Court demanding a review of the judgement on the grounds that it was not Oye, but him, that was removed by the Jigawa State High Court, which was challenged at the Court of Appeal, Kano. 