Allowing Okada riders to operate after closure is discriminatory, says HURIWA Following the death of five people and escalation of violence at the popular Dei-Dei market, in Abuja, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammed Musa Bello, yesterday, ordered immediate closure of the market.  “I have come here and met the leadership of the market, I have met the leadership of the communities and met the political leadership as represented by the chairman and vice chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council.  What really came out very clearly was that this was an accident, which  occurred when a lady on a commercial motorcycle fell off and a vehicle ran over her and, unfortunately, she passed on.
     
There was no communal clash here and I appeal to all residents of Abuja to continue to live here, as we have always lived in peace as the centre of unity.”  Also, the secretary,  Tomato and Onion Sellers Association in  Dei-Dei, Dahiru Garba Mani, disclosed that four persons were killed during the clash in the market.
  
They both appealed to the minister of FCT to make provision for a police division within the market, with adequate personnel. MEANWHILE,  a civil society group, Human Rights  Writers  Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), has asked the minister to re-open Dei- Dei market, find a way to rebuild the infrastructures destroyed by commercial motorcyclists in the  fracas or ban the operation of commercial motorcyclists in Dei Dei and Kubwa for justice, equity and fairness. 
    
The rights group said it is offensive to the principle of natural justice that two parties were involved in a fracas, but the authority rather than make peace and create harmony and reconciliation decided to back one of the aggrieved parties because of religious motive.
  
HURIWA, in a statement  yesterday by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, said the role of a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is that of service without bitterness or sectionalism since ministers are appointed for all of Nigeria. 
   
“We do not want to believe that it is true that the FCT Minister who is a Nigerian will adopt controversial and unnatural steps that offends the commercial interests of his fellow citizens and let off the motor cyclists, who are largely illegal aliens from Niger Republic, Chad and just a sprinkling of Moslem Northern Nigerians, only because traders at Dei Dei market that fought with Okada riders are mostly Igbos from Southern Nigeria and are Christians by faith orientation.
 
“We call on President Muhammadu Buhari ,who constitutionally is the governor of FCT to ask his subordinate, the FCT minister, to adopt solution that won’t be seen as favouring a party. The favoured party are almost 100 per cent Moslems, sharing same faith system with the minister.
   
“Leadership is not to bow to religious or ethnic sentiments. Leadership must be altruistic, nationalistic, just, fair and equitable and the Minister who has worked harmoniously with peoples of all faith and ethnicity for years, should not now be remotely connected to this sort of story of open but shameful partiality and crude biasness.” Recall that trouble started at the market on Wednesday, when an unidentified female trader reportedly fell off a commercial motorcycle and was crushed to death by an articulated vehicle.
  
Other traders from the market then burnt the motorcycle, blaming the rider for reckless riding. Their action, however, prompted a reprisal from Okada riders in the area, who regrouped in large numbers and went into the timber section of the market and set it ablaze. 