You don’t have to be a Pro Gift Card Trader to know How to Sell Gift Cards on the GiftCardsToNaira Trading Platform. Yet, many traders still choose to sell and trade their gift cards with unreliable vendors that exchange their cards at low rates and eventually fall victim to scams. You get to sell at the highest rate and enjoy peace of mind when you trade on this platform. Trading your gift cards at the highest possible rates with instant cash payment cannot be overemphasized when you choose this platform. If you’re looking for the best Gift Card Exchange Platform, GiftCardsToNaira is your best bet. We have made it simple for you by creating this guide that explains how to sell your gift cards on GIFTCARDSTONAIRA. Let’s quickly see the step-by-step guide to start trading on this platform. How to Sell Gift Cards on GiftCardsToNaira To begin trading on this platform, you must create an account or download the mobile app. GiftCardsToNaira Android App: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.dockthor.giftcardstonaira GiftCardsToNaira iPhone App: https://apps.apple.com/ng/app/giftcardstonaira-sell-giftcard/id1563355955 After creating an account on the GiftcardstoNaira: Once you have logged in and done with the setups, click on the “SELL GIFT CARD” menu. Next, choose the gift card you would like to sell, then select the card category and amount. Now upload an image/picture of the card or type the Ecode in the box and then Submit it to complete the trade. Once your gift card is confirmed, the cash equivalent will be paid into your wallet, and you can then withdraw to your bank account. Gift Card Trading Features on the Platform Card Category: When you click on (Sell Gift Card) and choose the type of gift card you want to sell, next is to select the card category. This is where to select the brand name for the gift card you want to sell. If you have a US $100 Apple iTunes card, you can select it from the category list. The card category contains the list of all available denominations for any particular gift card brand you choose. Amount: After selecting the gift card category, the next thing is to enter the exact amount. The option for amount is where you enter how many gift cards you wish to sell. You can sell a $100 iTunes gift certificate in five pieces, which means that the total amount you have to sell is 500. The price you will receive in return for the amount you have entered will be displayed when you type the amount. This price is based on the current rates at that moment you are trading on the platform. However, GiftcardstoNaira offers the most competitive rates. Wallet: A wallet is being created for you once you register on the platform; this is where you receive your money for each trade carried out. Once the Admin does your transaction or gift card confirmation, you will be credited into your account wallet. Then, you can now withdraw the balance to your bank account from your wallet, and the money will land immediately. Withdraw: On registering on this platform, you must have chosen your country as Nigeria or Ghana and then added your bank account. Your money will be paid into your account wallet and made available for withdrawal for any completed trade on the platform. You can now withdraw your money directly to your bank account using the Naira payment or Cedis payment method. Moreover, the withdrawal is always available, and before you can withdraw any money, you must have linked your bank account to your Cedis or Naira wallet. You can also withdraw the money at any time or any day. Top Gift Cards: The top gift cards page is one exciting feature on the GiftcardstoNaira Platform. Clicking on the Top Gift Cards menu displays the list of best gift cards to sell with the highest rates at any moment. This feature continuously provides you with top gift cards with high rates and their respective prices. Check Rates: This is another exciting feature available on the platform; it helps you to know your gift card value at a glance. The Check Rates feature is also known as the Gift Cards Rates Calculator. With this feature, you can check and know the exact cash value of any amount of gift card you want to trade on the platform. To check any card rate, select the gift card, select the card category and enter the amount; then, it will display the cash value. However, the amount is being calculated based on the current rate of the gift card. Transactions: The transactions menu is your gift card trade history page containing the completed, pending, and rejected trades. All trades and transactions on your account are made available and indicated on this page. The transactions menu page also contains your withdrawals history. Where to Sell Gift Cards? Determining where or how to sell gift cards can depend on your personal circumstances. It’s best to do your research and find the best solution for you. While some sites and apps have faster speeds and offer lower gift card rates, others might prefer peer-to-peer trade. You might not like what works for someone else. Before you decide on a site that sells gift cards, ask yourself some questions.  Consider the following when choosing a Gift Card Trading Platform: It is a pleasure to inform you that GIFTCARDSTONAIRA covers all the above points. Now is a Perfect Time to Trade your Gift Cards! If you don’t use any of your gift cards and have no plans to use them, this is the time to get them used. No one can predict the future, so why keep the gift card and allow the card’s value to depreciate? Although Gift cards don’t quickly expire, you shouldn’t abandon them in your room. It’s time to sell your gift cards now! Visit https://giftcardstonaira.com to start selling.  Conclusion So, this is all you need to know on How to Sell Gift Cards on the GiftCardsToNaira Platform. Take advantage of this today and start trading all your gift cards on this platform. Trade your gift cards comfortably and enjoy peace of mind. Happy Trading!