The newly-elected Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives candidate for Ijebu-North/Ijebu-East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, Kehinde Bello, has urged the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to uphold the democratic ethos and respect the will of members towards brightening the chances of the opposition in 2023 polls. He stated this in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, while speaking against the backdrop of controversies trailing the conduct of the PDP’s primary elections in some parts of the state. Bello, who polled 58 votes to defeat four other aspirants, faulted the claim of victory by the Deputy Minority Whip in the House of Representatives, Adesegun Adekoya, urging him to accept his loss in good faith. He said the lawmaker’s claims smacked on desperation to subvert the wishes of party delegates and will of the constituents. He alleged that prior to the primary election, the defeated aspirant had boasted that he would clinch the PDP ticket irrespective of opposition from party members. Bello, therefore, urged the PDP National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, and the party’s NWC not to be swayed by Adekoya’s antics but respect the popular verdict of the constituents. Adekoya, who is seeking a third term as federal lawmaker, has declared that he was the clear winner of the primary election based on the results collated. He described as “fake” the results already released and widely circulated, stressing that he was only waiting to receive his certificate of return upon his victory. Bello further said: “My attention was drawn to Adesegun Adekoya’s claims this afternoon and I can’t but submit that his comments were most unfortunate. Saying that he won the primary election in our federal constituency is the height of deceit and desperation to mislead members of the public. “I won the primary election. There is no controversy over that except the one being orchestrated by Adekoya who clearly lost having been rejected by majority of party members. Can you imagine the person who lost an election describing the authentic results as fake? I wonder why he failed to produce the results that returned him as the winner. “There are video evidences of the primary election, which was witnessed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials, security agents, party members and even press men. Candidates have similarly emerged in other federal constituencies and their results have been published. Let him show us the votes he polled in the primaries, hence he should desist from feigning unmerited victory. “The primary election was scheduled for Sunday. But because it was already late in the night and the venue was unsafe due to the threats posed by thugs brought to the place, all the aspirants, agents and other stakeholders agreed that the exercise should be rescheduled to hold on Monday. “As agreed, the primary election was conducted in the full glare of everyone on Monday. Other aspirants and their agents, except Adekoya, were present. The electoral and returning officers of the party were there. At the end of the day, I was announced as the winner and the results were duly signed by agents of those that even lost the election. So, why is it difficult for Adesegun Adekoya to concede defeat?” Meanwhile, one of the aspirants who lost the primary election, Telle Ogunjobi, has urged his supporters to accept the outcome of the election as the will of God. In a statement by his media team on Tuesday, Ogunjobi appealed to his supporters and associates “to remain resolute,” adding that they would be updated as soon as possible on the next line of action. The statement partly reads: “The long-awaited primary election has been conducted and the winner has emerged according to the will of God. “Irrespective of the outcome of the election, we still found it deserving and worthy of note to appreciate all the Tele Ogunjobi associates and supporters across board for your steadfastness, painstaking patience and supports even in the face of repression and suppression. “The election may not be in our favour as God wishes but we take solace in the word of God that says, ‘To everything on earth, there’s time and purpose.’ Let’s have that strong belief and faith that there will always be light at every end of the tunnel. Hence, our joy is on the way. Though it may tarry, but it we surely come at an appointed time.”