As Nigerians continue to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis and the economic downturn, corruption needs also to be addressed. From small and midsize enterprises to multinational corporations and for countries around the world, everyone bears the burden of corruption. Even so, corruption and the pandemic are responsible for the drop of two million of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) within four years. It means between 2017 and 2021 MSMEs reduced from 41 million to 39 million in 2021, according to a recent release from the Director General of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Alhaji Dikko Radda.  Anti corruption efforts are needed so that we can invest effectively in urgent priorities. The trillions of dollars governments and businesses are devoting to revitalizing our economies are at risk of being diluted if these funds become fertile ground for corruption and self- dealing. By some estimates, the yearly cost of corruption is over $3.5 trillion – capital that could more than fund the $300bilion estimated cost of climate adaptation in development economies.
   
But knowing that we must address corruption is just one part of the story. The other is how we go about addressing the challenges of corruption. Here, the challenges we are confronting are instructive. Just as the pandemic and climate change, each demands global collaboration, so too does the battle against corruption. The fact that 188 states are parties to the Convention Against Corruption speaks to the recognition that a collective commitment is crucial to meeting our anti- corruption objectives.
   
Importantly, when we speak of collective action, it must also mean multilateral and multistakeholder in nature, because no single country, company or industry can achieve its anti- corruption goals by itself. From small and midsize enterprises to multinational corporations and for countries around the world, everyone bears the burden of corruption, even if it is not within their own boardrooms or borders. Every stakeholder, therefore, needs to be part of the solution. Although granting pardon to people convicted of corruption isn’t helping matters.  