The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development on Saturday trained master cooks in Ondo State under the National Homegrown School Feeding Programme. The master cooks from the 18 local government areas of the state were trained on how to maintain hygiene and judicious use of resources. Speaking during the training in Akure, Mrs Kemisola Olasetemi, the state team leader, said the training was to build the cooks’ capacity. Olasetemi added that the capacity building would enable participants to deliver on the set goals of providing quality meals that were hygienically prepared. She explained that the ministry had the mandate to provide quality food under the Federal Government School Feeding Programme. Olasetemi also said the programme would afford the team the opportunity to capture the data of the cooks and affirmed the importance of keeping up with the menu timetable. “This is the training of the master trainers and they are expected to step down what they have learned at their various local governments. “There will be continuous retraining at the local government level from time to time,” she said. Also speaking, Mrs Bunmi Ademosu, the Special Adviser to the state governor on Public and Inter-Governmental Relations and State Focal Person on NSIP, restated the government’s commitment to ensure the programme achieves its set goals. Ademosu urged the participants to equip themselves with the necessary skills on how to cook in a hygienic environment. She said that the state government was determined to ensure compliance with food timetable as nutrition and environmental officers across the local governments would do continuous checks. Ademosu, who frowned at the sharp practices of some cooks, promised that her office would continue to do a routine check and anybody found culpable would face the consequences. Mrs Bosede Musiliu and Mrs Temitope Ayeni, two of the cooks, noted that they had learned a lot, promising to take the message back to their various local government areas. They commended the government for the training, saying it was apt as they had learned among others, how to preserve their food and the essence of washing their hands while cooking. 