 Recently, JA Worldwide received a nomination for the 2022 Nobel Peace Prize. JA Africa (www.JA-Africa.org), a member of the global JA network, has been serving young people in Africa for 43 years, equipping them with the skillset and mindset to create sustainable businesses, find meaningful employment, and build thriving communities.  For over 100 years, JA has operated all over the world, including where there is political instability, violence, and war, as well as the unemployment, poverty, and hopelessness that stems from such conditions. By helping youth develop the employment and entrepreneurial tools to find meaningful work and start sustainable companies, JA serves as conduit for peace and prosperity. Asheesh Advani, CEO of JA Worldwide, shared his perspective in response to the nomination: “Peace is only possible when youth in all countries and regions have economic empowerment. JA Worldwide is honored to receive this nomination and will continue our work to enable all young people to have the skillset and mindset to build thriving communities. Our primary hope for solving the world’s most complex problems rests in the young people of today who will be the leaders of tomorrow.” In the wake of this tremendous recognition, JA Africa is honoring its donors and partners who have contributed to impacting the lives of more than two million young Africans who have benefitted from JA programs. JA Africa is grateful to Citi Foundation, FedEx, Delta Air Lines, Tomorrow Foundation, the Project Management Institute Educational Foundation (PMIEF), Prudence Foundation, Google.org, African Development Band, Meta, Prince’s Trust International, Oliver Wyman, UNEP, Ecobank Foundation, Motorola Foundation and Aiducation Foundation, and is proud to have collaborated with these leading organizations alongside others and the hundreds of local relationships and partnerships at the Member country level, to create lasting impact on African youth. Together with these partners, JA Africa is strengthening the youth entrepreneurial ecosystems across Africa, inspiring collaboration between stakeholders, and supporting young people as they prepare to enter the workforce. “We are grateful to have the support of our partners and donors who, despite having to make cutbacks in these difficult times, are resolute in their commitment to invest in the youth of Africa,” said JA Africa’s CEO, Simi Nwogugu. She added, “Peace is foundational for any country to prosper and the youth hold the keys to promoting peace and prosperity in the present and foreseeable future. It is an honor for our work at JA to be recognized and nominated for such a prestigious award. I congratulate all Board Members on the regional JA Africa board as well as on all the Member Nation boards in 13 countries, who dedicate enormous time, talent and resources to supporting our work across the continent.” Lack of employment opportunities is a potential driver for conflict and instability. This is why JA Africa’s work is so important. Each JA student has the potential to employ and impact the lives of at least five of their peers. The organization hopes to leverage the visibility the Nobel Peace Prize nomination brings to strengthen partnerships with governments and institutions across the continent for greater reach and impact.  Presently, JA Africa reaches more than 250,000 youth per year and has set an ambitious goal to double that impact to 500,000 by 2023 and ramp up quickly to reaching one million youth annually with its training programs on job readiness, financial literacy and entrepreneurship. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Junior Achievement (JA) Africa. Contact:
Mujeni Aseli
Director of Marketing and Partnerships
+254 719 457 434
mujeni.aseli@ja-africa.org  JA Africa:
Junior Achievement (JA) Africa equips young Africans with the employability and entrepreneurial skills and mindsets they need to build thriving communities. Through the delivery of financial literacy, work readiness, and entrepreneurship training and in collaboration with schools, technical/ vocational centers and other partners, JA Africa works in 13 countries reaching over 250,000 youth each year. Learn more about us at www.JA-Africa.org or follow us on social media @ja_africa  JA Worldwide:
As one of the world’s largest youth-serving NGOs, JA Worldwide prepares young people for employment and entrepreneurship. For over 100 years, JA has delivered hands-on, experiential learning in work readiness, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship. Each year, our network of over 590,000 volunteers and teachers serves more than 12 million students in over 115 countries. Visit JAWorldwide.org.