Task govs, monarchs, others on security challenges 
A group in Yorubaland, Southwest Security Stakeholders Group (SSSG), has raised the alarm over influx of non-Nigerians into all the six states in South-West, saying the situation is threatening the peace of the region. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Adewole Ireti, the group said it was alarmed by the raging influx of non-Nigerians from Mali, Chad, Niger Republic and other neighbouring African countries into the South-West. According to the statement made available to The Guardian in Ibadan, the group raised the alarm after a meeting held at the residence of the convener and Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams. Ireti stated also that the group could no longer keep mute at the impending danger lurking around the region. “After the meeting with leaders of the Southwest Security Stakeholders Group from across the South-West, we agreed to raise the alarm over the influx of non-Nigerians invading the South-West and wrecking untold havoc to various communities in the region. “Information at our disposal actually showed the plans and desperation of non-Nigerians with no identity and masquerading as motorcycle riders (Okada riders) to perpetrate evil across the South-West. “From our investigation, many of the Okada riders in the communities are non-Nigerians with no identity and a place of abode. “You can hardly trace them and we have it on good authority that they usually hold weekly meetings every Friday after the Jumat service at their various locations to strategise on the best approach for them to perfect their sinister motives against residents of the South-West. “A large percentage of them are from other neighbouring countries like Niger Republic, Mali and Chad. They are motorcycle riders and have dangerous weapons stocked under the seat of their motorcycles,” he said. The SSSG publicity secretary added that the reopening of Seme Border had, rather than being a blessing, turned out to be a curse, saying: “Our attention has been drawn to the various activities playing out at the Seme border. They didn’t allow duties, but they allow non-Nigerians from Burkina-Faso and Mali to find their way illegally to Iwoye, a town in Ogun State that shares border with Benin Republic.” The group, therefore, urged all the South-West governors, traditional rulers and other stakeholders across the region to brace up to the security challenges to make the region safe. 