Ishaku urges prayers for officer’s safe return
Troops of 93 Battalion have launched out on a search-and-rescue mission for a personnel missing in action while responding to a distress call from Tati community in Takum Local Council of Taraba State on Tuesday. Army spokesman, Brig-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, noted that troops had launched out swiftly on receiving a distress call that Tati community was under attack by bandits. His words: “While in pursuit of the bandits, troops fell into an ambush staged by the criminals. The troops fought fiercely through the ambush neutralising four of the bandits. “Sadly, during the fire fight, six gallant soldiers paid the supreme price, while one personnel is missing in action. However, a reinforcement team from 6 Brigade deployed against the fleeing bandits at Ananum Village in Donga Local Council neutralised two bandits and recovered one AK-47 rifle, one pistol, one locally fabricated gun, two AK-47 magazines, 19 rounds of 7.62 mm special, seven rounds of 9mm ammunition and three motorcycles.” Troops, he added, are in pursuit of the bandits and will leave no stone unturned in the ongoing search for the missing personnel. He enjoined the people of Taraba to be vigilant and report any suspicious movement to security agencies. ON his part, Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba has stressed the need for Nigerians to pray fervently for the safe return of the commanding officer. In a statement, yesterday, in Jalingo by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, the governor noted that the incident has become a source of concern to him. Consequently, he has renewed his call on the residents to keep an eagle eye on strangers coming into their communities. The governor expressed shock and sadness at the way terrorists cut short the lives of soldiers on a national assignment. Lauding the gallantry of the soldiers led by the missing commanding officer, he regretted that the operation resulted in the death of six. Ishaku commiserated with the military and the families of the deceased military officers. 