• Celebrates Eid-el-Fitri with Islamic leaders
• Lagos gov, wife task parents on children’s upbringing
• Say bad parenting cause of vices among children Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said his administration will not condone any act of indiscipline and criminality capable of truncating peace in  the state. 
Abiodun gave the warning yesterday, while hosting a reception for members of the Ogun State League of Imams and Alfas led by the Chief Imam of Egbaland, Sheik Sandala Bamgbola, to commemorate the Eid-el-Fitri celebration at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta. The governor, who said that the state government had invested heavily in the security architecture towards providing adequate security for investors, warned that any form of criminality from any quarter would be treated as an act of sabotage. He urged parents and guardians to train their children and wards on the need to stay away from kidnapping, cultism, ritual killing, among others, insisting that anyone caught in the act would be dealt with according to the dictates of the law. Enumerating the importance of religious leaders to the enthronement of good governance in the state, the governor urged residents to imbibe the spirit of tolerance as a means of promoting peaceful co-existence across the state. He, however, disclosed that his administration would constitute the Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board in due time. RELATEDLY, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, yesterday,  attributed most of the social vices involving children are to bad parenting. They, therefore, tasked parents to pay more attention to activities and issues concerning upbringing of their children. The governor, who spoke at the Lagos State 2022 Eid-el-Fitri celebration, represented by his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, said that corrupted parenting is responsible for many cases of children engaging in various forms of social vices. On her part, the First Lady said: “As we bask in the euphoria of the celebration, it is important to admonish our children and youths to shun all ungodly, immoral and bestial acts.” “As parents and guardians too, we must lead by example and pay closer attention to the totality of what concerns our children and wards.”