The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) for the June 18, 2022 governorship polls in Ekiti State, Dr. Wole Oluyede, has refuted a report that he was planning to collapse his campaign structure into another political party ahead of the election. Oluyede described such alleged rumour as the handiwork of perceived political opponents who were afraid of the popularity of ADC in the state. The Australian-based medical doctor-turned politician, who spoke through the Director-General of his campaign organisation, Mrs. Omotunde Fajuyi, in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, while briefing newsmen on highlight of his campaign schedules across the 16 local councils of the state, wondered how a political party that is more visible in 14 out of 16 local councils would be collapsing or fusing into a less fancied party. “We are here to win this election. We have no reason to collapse our structure into any party when we are the party to beat in the polls. Those who are selling this cheap propaganda are afraid of our popularity. “We are strong in Ado, Ikere, Ijero, Ekiti West, Ilejemeje, Ekiti East, Ekiti South-West, Irepodun/Ifelodun and others. We have a well structured reach and our campaign strategy is principally village-to-village and house-to-house and we are getting results,” he said. Oluyede described ADC as a big party that is strongly and widely supported by civil servants, artisans and other strata of the society. He described himself as the most qualified to govern Ekiti in terms of exposure, professional accomplishments, experience and preparedness for the task of bringing the required dividends of democracy to the populace. The governorship candidate said his mission is to rejuvenate Ekiti State’s economy and tutor fresh bloods in the act of politics and governance to bring a paradigm shift in ways people are governed. He said the most outstanding about his candidature is the fact that “for the first time, Ekiti will be having someone who is accomplished in his chosen career.”