• Eagles begin preparation for clash with Ecuador 
Super Eagles’ new manager, Jose Poseiro, is satisfied with the performance of his team despite their 1-2 loss to Mexico. In Peseiro’s first game as Nigeria’s senior team manager, the Super Eagles, assembled barely four days to yesterday’s early morning game, put up a gutsy performance, but lost through an own goal to the North Americans, who are preparing for Qatar 2022 World Cup. Speaking after the match played at the At&T Stadium, Dallas, U.S., Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Amaju Pinnick, said: “I am happy with what we put up out there. It was the first time after the disappointment of the World Cup playoff and you can say this is a makeshift team, while Mexico had their full-strength squad out there. “I like what I saw today and I have confidence that we have appointed the right coach that can restore the glory of the Super Eagles and make them start winning once more.” Missing so many first-team players, including Captain, Ahmed Musa and being the first time they were coming together for any session since the disappointment of 2022 FIFA World Cup ticket miss, the three –time African champions were projected to be sitting ducks for the Mexicans to roast in the State of Texas – a jurisdiction that shares a border with Mexico and where Mexico’s lingua franca, Spanish is taught in schools as a second language.
 
Mexico took the lead just after 13 minutes when Santiago Gimenez found himself all alone with goalkeeper Francis Uzoho and steered home despite Uzoho’s valiant efforts to keep the ball away.
 
Onslaught after onslaught led to several more opportunities for the El Tri, but Uzoho and the Nigeria rearguard, with Semi Ajayi, William Ekong and Chidozie Awaziem kept the wolves off the door. Luis Francisco Romo, Captain Andres Guardado, Rodolfo Pizzaro, Jesus Gallardo, Roberto Alvarado and Gimenez sought to frisk the Nigeria defence now and again, but they could not breach the wall again.
 
Peseiro opted for a flexible and interesting 3-5-2 formation, with Moses Simon and Calvin Bassey deployed as wing backs, and Joe Aribo, Alex Iwobi and Innocent Bonke serving in midfield. Cyriel Dessers and Terem Moffi searched for the goals. 