Sir: It is that time of the year when elected representatives of the people are expected to give an account of their stewardship preparatory to their bidding for higher office or another term in their current position. In Ogun State, as in every other state, political scheming and machinations targeted at securing the top job are already at work. However, regardless of the template and texture of future campaigns of calumny against the Ogun helmsman, one thing stands inviolate: his second term bid is rooted in monumental, verifiable achievements. In the last three years, Dapo Abiodun has been firing on all cylinders, ensuring that the ISEYA mantra comes to reality. From road infrastructure to housing, health, education, agriculture and the digital sector, evidence abounds of policies and plans executed to change the development narrative and take the state to enviable heights. As described by Governor Dapo Abiodun himself, the projects executed by his administration “have the inputs and are informed by the needs of the people as expressed by them at different engagement fora.” This, he avers, “is because we anchor our Building our Future Together Agenda on inclusiveness, equity, fairness, transparency, accountability, justice, and obedience to the rule of law.” No less a personality than President Muhammadu Buhari attested to this vision in January this year when he inaugurated projects in the state, including the Ijebu-Ode-Epe road, a strategic arterial road that links the Lekki/ Epe corridor of Lagos State to the eastern corridor of Ogun State at Ijebu-Ode, provides a ready alternative to the Lagos/Ibadan expressway for those going to Lekki and adjoining areas and provides a fillip for socio-economic activities in the South East and South-South zones of Nigeria through the linkage of the road to Sagamu-Benin Expressway for easier access by motorists to Lagos, Nigeria’s largest economy. The president inaugurated the 42 km Sagamu Interchange-Abeokuta road, the main arterial road that leads to the state capital, and which comes with a dual carriageway with streetlights, median and other road furniture, vastly redesigned and reconstructed to address the daily challenges being experienced by commuters. The president lauded the Gateway City Gate, an architectural masterpiece made of composite materials towering to a height of 27m and warmly welcoming visitors to the state, and the two Housing Estates for low, medium and high-income earners at Kobape and Oke-Mosan. Kobape has 300 units of one, two and three-bedroom flats described as a “Smart City” where people can live, work and play, complete with solar streetlights, sewage system, primary health centre, drainage, water, electricity, tarred road and a police post. Watchers of the political developments in Ogun acknowledge the Executive Order aimed at providing 35 per cent representation for women in both government and politics in the state as a good policy. It has been complemented with the re-launching of the popular Oko’wo Dapo scheme in collaboration with Nigeria For Women Project (NFWP). Besides, the Agro-Cargo Airport under construction at Illisan-Remo in Ikenne local council of the state will be ready by May next year. • Funmi Branco contributed this piece through funmibranco@naver.com