• Advises Osimhen to pick next club carefully
Former Super Eagles coach, Christian Chukwu, has urged the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to be careful in selecting a new technical adviser for the senior national team, saying that the quality of the new helmsman would determine what becomes of the team during his tenure. Following Nigeria’s failure to qualify for the forthcoming Qatar 2022 World Cup, football followers have been clamouring for a new coach for the Super Eagles, who must be able and ready to correct the problems the team faced in the last six years. Chukwu told The Guardian, yesterday, that the continued delay in getting a substantive coach for the Super Eagles is dangerous, especially with the Nations Cup qualifiers about to begin. He said that one of the reasons former Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, did not work with home-based players was because he did not live in Nigeria to monitor the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). He advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to go for a coach, who will live in Nigeria, monitor the country’s leagues and also be able to create a winning pattern for the team. He said the NFF would be doing Nigerian football a disservice if it made a wrong choice in the appointment of a technical adviser, adding that the team would still face the same challenges that held it down in recent past. The former Harambee Stars of Kenya coach said: “The NFF should get a quality coach, foreign or local, to start building the Super Eagles fast. If they are going for a foreign coach, the NFF must ensure the coach is currently active on the job and have quality resume. “I was a foreign coach before to another country, so, I know the hurdles I faced to be hired. “The Super Eagles cannot be great again if the right manager does not handle the team. The NFF should act fast and get a substantive coach for the Eagles to avoid excuses that come with appointing a coach very close to a championship.” The former national captain also advised Super Eagles and Napoli FC of Italy striker, Victor Osimhen, who, according to reports, is currently being wooed by Arsenal and Manchester United, to go for a club that will give him regular playing time. He said choosing a wrong club would affect Osimhen’s development negatively. 