The Aggregator Platform (TAP), an initiative conceived and powered by the employees of Oando Plc has raised over N61 million with the support of 11 implementing partners to impact 36,375 individuals in 7,272 households across 30 communities in Lagos. TAP, also known as the #HumansofOando, achieved this feat within the last two years since its inception. TAP was created at the peak of COVID-19 in April 2020, as a short-term intervention to alleviate the rising rate of hunger aggravated by the pandemic in Nigeria. The employees of Oando identified that despite the financial contributions and efforts made by the public and private sector as well as Non-Governmental Agencies (NGOs) in feeding the less privileged there is still a huge gap between those who are in dire need and those who are eventually reached and fed. To mark its second anniversary, the #HumansofOando went beyond financing the feeding programme to actively participating in a food drive. They participated as volunteers in outreach to distribute food relief to underprivileged families in Ilasan Community, Lekki, on April 30, in partnership with the charity Abraham’s Tent. Speaking at the commemoration of its anniversary in Lagos, an Oando Employee, Ibukun Opeodu, said in a world of abundant wealth and resources, where enough food is produced to feed everyone on the planet, it is unacceptable that millions of people continue to suffer from hunger. Opeodu who doubles as the Investor Relations Manager, Oando Plc, said right now, Nigeria is the poverty capital of the world. Coupled with the inflation and hunger rate in the country, people are facing severe food insecurity and looming famine. “Hence, actively participating in TAP was a no-brainer for me when the initiative was born. I’m proud of all the Humans of Oando for driving this initiative into its second year and I look forward to celebrating even more years of impacting lives. The hope is that other well-meaning Nigerians take a cue from this initiative and together we can end hunger.” Also speaking, Events, Branding and Sponsorship Analyst, Oando and TAP Volunteer, Dayo Ali, said; “I commend the Humans of Oando for sustaining this initiative thus far, especially in a challenging environment like ours. This initiative couldn’t have come at a better time (during the COVID-19 pandemic) and I’m glad to have been a part of it. In addition to donating, I am glad I got to experience the feeding outreach on April 30. “We all desire a peaceful and prosperous country. However, this cannot be achieved when more than half the population is hungry. I don’t take my privilege for granted, and I’m paying it forward through TAP. My message to everyone today is a quote from Mother Theresa. She said I never look at the masses as my responsibility. I look at the individual. I can love only one person at a time. I can feed only one person at a time.”