Ask FG to intervene before they’re killed Terrorists who attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train on March 28, 2022, have released yet another video, showing eight of the 62 remaining victims, begging the Federal Government to rescue them before they lose their lives. It would be recalled that the terrorists, who attacked the train, killed nine people and kidnapped over 60 passengers. In the latest video, the son of Prof. Ango Abdullahi, the convener of Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Sadiq Ango Abdullahi, and a woman who claims to be Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s classmate, spoke, appealing to the government to grant the terrorists’ demand and rescue them from captivity. It would be recalled that Tukur Mamu, a Kaduna-based publisher and spokesman of Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, had disclosed at the weekend that the abductors have withdrawn their initial threat to start slaughtering the 62 victims by Tuesday, at the expiration of a seven-day ultimatum given last week. According to Mamu and the families of the victims, the terrorists are asking for the release of their (terrorists) eight children in government custody in exchange for the 62 captives. The new video, which shows eight victims (five men kneeling down and three women sitting on a blue trampoline, also shows one of the masked terrorists, wielding an AK47 rifle. The terrorist, at the beginning of the broadcast as a result of pleas from the victims to allow them to beg the Federal Government, said: “We are the thieves that captured these people in the train along the Abuja-Kaduna route. The people are appealing to us that they want to talk to the government. “So, we gave them chance to talk to the Federal Government and it is left for you (government) to listen to them or abandon them,” he said. Sadiq Ango Abdullahi in the video said most of the 62 victims are sick, and he begged for the government’s intervention in their rescue. He said: “We have been here for 62 days. Most of us here are sick and we are not in good condition. Everyday, the situation gets deteriorates. We are appealing to the Federal Government to come to our aid before we start losing our lives,” he said. Mrs Gladys, who broke down in tears, claims to be Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s classmate at the Law School. She said she is worried because she left a son, who is a ‘sickler’ back at home. She appealed particularly to the Vice President to come to their aid and ensure their rescue from the terrorists’ den. She said: “My name is Gladys Moren. I am appealing particularly to Prof. Osinbajo, who was my classmate at 78/79 Law School. You are a grandfather and father; come to our aid because we have been here for 62 days and I have a son who is a sickler; I don’t know his condition now. “I am pleading that the Federal Government and Rotimi Amaechi, who is the Minister of Transportation, to please come to our assistance. I am pleading. We are all sick.” Another victim, Maryam Abubakar, said she is in the bandits’ hands with her husband and four children, two of whom are currently sick.