• Cannibals have infiltrated Igbo land, says COSEYL
• Police blast communities for covering criminals The Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuma Soludo, has expressed his administration’s determination to tackle the security situation in the state. He made the declaration at a meeting with the political aspirants of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) held at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia, yesterday.  He stressed that the security challenges confronting the state are being perpetrated by criminals, who have now engaged in kidnapping, killing and other manner of criminalities as a lucrative enterprise, and which is a departure from any form of political agitations. He said: “The battle line has been drawn… no place in Anambra will be safe for criminals to operate as government is putting stringent measures in place with security agencies to tackle the situation headlong and restore peace and order to the state.” MEANWHILE, Igbo youths, under the aegis of Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL), yesterday, raised the alarm over the state of killings in Anambra State, saying that cannibals have infiltrated Igbo land. They also urged the governor of the state, Charles Soludo, to form special security guards to secure communities in the state. Reacting to the killing of a lawmaker and seven others in the state, including a mother and her four children, the group decried the attempt to turn South East, especially Anambra, into a killing field. In a statement, the youths condemned the sudden rise in insecurity in the region and vowed to resist it. The statement signed by the President General of the group, Goodluck Ibem, reads: “The killing of the lawmaker and seven others, at different locations of the state by yet to be identified gunmen, is wicked, barbaric, criminal and senseless. No sane society will accept such acts of wickedness, perpetrated by these criminals. Something very urgent needs to be done to put a stop to these ugly incidents in our land. ALSO, the Anambra State Police Command has frowned at the development where communities feel reluctant to give information about the activities of criminals in their areas, to help tackle them. The state Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, made this known in a press conference, yesterday, saying that police have identified some of the criminals and are going all out to deal with them. Echeng maintained that there was nothing unknown about the gunmen terrorising the state to warrant calling then ‘unknown gunmen.’ He argued that ‘unknown gunmen’ is not the right name for these criminals, saying that people are trying to mystify something that is not just there. According to him, it is time we go into demystifying these people, insisting that these people are not spirits and they live with us. 