Wema Bank Plc has unveiled a kids’ innovation challenge aimed at encouraging children to ideate and develop solutions in learning, health, games, and agriculture. The competition would reward the top three finalists who present the most creative and innovative ideas with scholarships of N300, 000, N200,000 and N100,000. Announcing the commencement of this year’s Wema Kids’ innovation challenge at the weekend, the Divisional Head, Retail Business, Dotun Ifebogun, said children whose parents opened the Royal Kiddies accounts were eligible to participate in the innovation challenge. According to him, while the Hackaholics technological challenge sponsored by the bank is for the young adults to find solutions to life issues, the Kids’ innovation challenge is to introduce young ones aged between six and 17 to ideate and proffer solutions to issues to learning, health, games and agricultural challenges. Ifebogun urged parents to open the Royal Kiddies Account for their wards to participate in the exercise. Chief Finance Officer of the bank, Tunde Mabawonku, said the bank placed high premium on innovation, adding that the bank would continue to partner organisations to create environment for a better future. He stressed that the importance of introducing children to the world of innovation is to get them to realise their creative potentials, noting: “We live in a dynamic world where technological advancement changes the way business is done from time to time.” The founder and CEO of Bulb Africa, the technical partner of in Innovation Challenge, Wande Adams, said the programme would train kids to solve everyday problems. Adams said his company had different training modules and activities such as the Next Gen, which would teach children in various areas of technology. The Head, Marketing Communication and Investors’ Relations, Funmilayo Falola, said the bank would continue to support the technological proficiency of the youth to help them contribute to the technological development of the country. 