About 71 per cent of Nigerian organisations were hit by ransomware in 2021, up from 22 per cent recorded a year earlier. According to a global cybersecurity firm, Sophos, in its yearly international survey and review of real-world ransomware experiences in the State of Ransomware 2022, 44 per cent of the organisations that had data encrypted paid ransoms to get their data back even if they had other means of data recovery, such as backups.
    
The report summarizes the impact of ransomware on 5,600 mid-sized organisations in 31 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Central Asia, the Middle East, and Africa.
  
Principal Research Scientist at Sophos, Chester Wisniewski, said the survey showed that, globally, the proportion of victims paying the ransom continues to increase, even when they may have other options available.
  
“There could be several reasons for this, including incomplete backups or the desire to prevent stolen data from appearing on a public leak site. In the aftermath of a ransomware attack, there is often intense pressure to get back up and running as soon as possible.  If organizations don’t thoroughly clean up the recovered data, they’ll end up with all that potentially toxic material in their network and potentially exposed to a repeat attack,” Wisniewski stated.
   
The main findings of the State of Ransomware 2022 global survey from the Nigerian respondents, which covers ransomware incidents experienced during 2021, as well as related cyber insurance issues, include that more victims are paying the ransom – In 2021, 44 per cent of organisations that had data encrypted in a ransomware attack paid the ransom.
     
The report noted that the impact of a ransomware attack can be immense. It pointed out that the average cost to recover from the most recent ransomware attack in 2021 was $3.43 million. It took on average one month to recover from the damage and disruption. Ninety-seven per cent of organizations said the attack had impacted their ability to operate, and 96 per cent of the victims said they had lost business and/or revenue because of the attack. 