FCT Police Command said it swiftly restored normalcy in Dei Dei town, Bwari Area Council, Abuja, yesterday, following civil unrest in the area. This was made known in a statement signed by FCT Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Josephine Adeh. The police said the situation was brought under control with the aid of its sister agencies, even as it continued monitoring and surveillance. Adeh said: “This followed the outbreak of civil unrest at Building Material market, Dei Dei area of the FCT at about 11:30 a.m. today. “A comprehensive deployment of tactical and intelligence assets of the Command was led by the Commissioner of Police, CP Babaji Sunday PSC, who drifted swiftly to the scene to ensure that the unrest is nipped in the bud. “This was also to forestall the destruction of private and government infrastructure, loss of life and property, and restore normalcy. “The police, in a concerted effort with other state apparatuses, upon arrival at the scene, managed the uproar, preventing further disintegration of law and order. “Monitoring and surveillance to ascertain the cause of the outbreak of violence, sustain the relative peace restored, and affirm the resultant level of damage is ongoing. “Findings will be communicated in due time.” The police urged the public not to share unverified news of the incident, warning that this could reignite violence. It also urged residents to desist from any form of violence and disobedience to law and order but rather remain vigilant and report any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the police. An eyewitness, Mr. Damian Akau, had told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the unrest took place after a woman was allegedly killed in an accident. He said: “I was close to the market when I saw people running and screaming that a vehicle had hit a woman and she has died. “The woman was said to have been on a bike. I don’t know how the accident happened but I saw some people holding down the commercial motorcyclist and maybe trying to beat him up. “Before we knew what was happening, other commercial motorcyclists tried to rescue him from the mob and then a clash ensued.” Akau said property was destroyed and an unverified number of persons lost their lives in the mayhem. 