Islamic leader prays for VP’s success
Shabaan faults el-Rufai’s anointment of Sani as successor Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that increasing opportunities for young people, providing lasting solutions to the country’s security challenges, improving the economy, and the life of the common man are some of the reasons for his bid to contest the 2023 presidential race. Prof. Osinbajo gave this indication in Bauchi State, in continuation of his engagement with stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) across states. Citing global challenges, including the previous slump in crude oil prices that had led to a recession, the Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and Russia-Ukraine war, Osinbajo stated: “The economy is one that we have to pay constant attention to. Of course, security is also very important. These are issues that concern us, which we are trying to deal with every day.” At the visit, Islamic leader, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, prayed that Osinbajo’s next visit to him would be as President of Nigeria.
The cleric said he would double his prayers for the success of the VP’s political aspiration. LIKE Osinbajo and APC national leader, Bola Tinubu, Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi was yesterday in Gombe State to woo the party delegates ahead of the presidential primaries. Fayemi promised to tackle joblessness, security and epileptic electricity. Addressing the delegates at the Government House Banquet Hall, Fayemi said he threw his hat into the ring after due consultation with friends and colleagues like Governor Muhammad Yahaya, who assured him of support. He described his mission to Aso Villa as a divine call to serve God and humanity. The Ekiti governor said his experience as governor, minister and chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) exposed him to a lot of national challenges. “Nigerians are resilient and productive, but we need certain motivations to gear them into action. I am sure that with stable power supply, they will be all out to showcase their budding talents,” he said. IN another development, Kaduna State governorship aspirant under APC, Alh. Sani Shaaban, has faulted Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s endorsement of Sen. Uba Sani as candidate of the party ahead of the primaries. Fielding questions from reporters at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, Shaaban said the development ran contrary to democratic tenets and laid down rules. He described the endorsement of Sani as a clear case of dictatorship that must be resisted by well-meaning chieftains of the party. 