Ex-governor vows to tackle insecurity if elected president President Muhammadu Buhari has said that outlaws must not be allowed to operate freely in the country, especially in Zamfara State. Bandits reportedly killed no fewer than 56 people on Friday afternoon in Damri, Sabongarin Damri and Kalahe villages of Bakura Local Council. On Saturday, another set of bandits killed seven more people in Maradun, also in Zamfara. In a statement, yesterday, by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, Buhari hailed the military for their efforts in securing the country and charged them to continue to achieve positive outcomes based on their current operational trajectory in the North West. “We must not allow the return of days when the bandits had a free hand to do as they wished. The rural folk in Zamfara and elsewhere must be allowed to have peace. “The momentum that has been developed must be sustained to end the activities of these murderers,” he said. The President noted that while there appears to be relatively calm in the state, with situations returning to normal in most parts, and the rural communities ready to live normal lives again, there had been several breaches, where a number of casualties were recorded. He condoled with the families of the victims, as well as the government and people of Zamfara, adding that the federal and state governments must do everything possible to bring an immediate end to the horrific killings. HOWEVER, former Governor of Zamfara State, Ahmed Yerima, has joined the race for the 2023 presidency, promising to tackle insecurity and poverty, if elected. Yerima, who represents Zamfara West in the Senate, declared his intention to contest the election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Addressing journalists during the declaration in Abuja, the Sardaunan Zamfara rolled out a three-point agenda, which he said would see him fighting insecurity, poverty and ignorance. He promised to improve the welfare of security agencies, as well as end poverty by ensuring that Nigerian youths and women were engaged meaningfully. “The new dimension of insecurity, which is kidnapping and banditry, will be a thing of the past if I am elected. There will be community policing. I also recruit more military and others security personnel and make sure they are paid well and taken care of to fight insecurity in the country. “You can find an educated person, who is ignorant of the law or society. We are going to make sure that every child goes to school. We are going to have free education from primary to secondary level and there will be a student loans board,” he said. Yerima commended his supporters, who donated money for the form. Former Commissioner of Information in Imo State, Prof. Vitalis Ajumbe, urged other regions to support the senator to emerge president of Nigeria in 2023.