Today, several online stores allow their customers to pay for goods and services in Bitcoin. Here’s how to shop online with Bitcoin. E-commerce is one sector that has increasingly benefited from the Bitcoin revolution. Several merchants have already integrated crypto into their systems, allowing customers to use Bitcoin as payment for various goods and services online. Bitcoin’s seamless, low-cost, secure, and instantaneous cross-border transactions have made it seem like a more reliable means of payment than fiat currencies. There are numerous goods and services that you can now buy online with Bitcoin, including apps, games, devices, air tickets, hotel bookings, groceries, plastic surgery, and newspapers. Search engines like Spendabit can help you find the millions of products available online for purchase with Bitcoin. You can also use BitcoinWide.com to see the various businesses and organizations that accept Bitcoin worldwide. Using Bitcoin for online shopping is just as easy as credit cards, but it only works if the store you intend to shop from accepts Bitcoin as a payment method. Nevertheless, here’s how to make online purchases with Bitcoin. Choose a Bitcoin Wallet Bitcoin users must have a valid crypto wallet to spend the coins. The wallet serves as the bank account, but it does not store Bitcoin. Instead, it keeps the private keys used to authorize transactions. Several free Bitcoin wallets exist online that you can download and install on your smartphone or desktop. However, some require a fee. But there’s no need to go through this step if you already have a Bitcoin wallet. Purchase Bitcoin After setting up a crypto wallet, the next step is to acquire some Bitcoin that you will use to shop online. Various ways exist for obtaining Bitcoin, including mining, Bitcoin faucets, affiliate marketing, and trading. However, the latter is the most convenient option. Crypto exchange platforms such as bitcoin profit are the most reliable places to buy Bitcoin. Most of them will allow you to purchase Bitcoin through bank transfers and credit cards. However, remember Bitcoin prices usually vary across crypto exchanges, so compare the rates offered by a few platforms first to buy Bitcoin low. Search Online Merchants That Accept Bitcoin You will only be able to use Bitcoin for online shopping if the merchant accepts Bitcoin as payment in their store. Bitcoin adoption has steadily increased in the e-commerce landscape, but some merchants still do not receive it. So, it is essential first to conduct an online search to find global and local online businesses that accept Bitcoin payments. While most online merchants that accept Bitcoin allow customers to buy all their products with it, some limit its usage to specific items only. Thus, your search should also focus on the available products for sale online that you can purchase with Bitcoin. For instance, Microsoft accepts Bitcoin purchases only for a few items listed on its online store. Choose the “Pay with Bitcoin” Option Online businesses that accept Bitcoin list the option among their payment options. Clicking the option will direct you to a dedicated payment window where you should enter the transaction details. The details may vary, but standard requirements are your wallet address and the amount of Bitcoin equivalent to the value of the purchased goods and services. The website will automatically calculate and display the amount of Bitcoin that you should transfer to the merchant on the payment window. Fill out the indicated fields and click send, then wait for prompts. The transaction will generate an invoice or a QR code to confirm the transaction. Bitcoin allows you to shop for different goods and services from several online merchants worldwide at your convenience. The above guidelines will help you navigate the complexities of using Bitcoin for online shopping.