 mental health Photo:Pixabay Mental health has become of great concern for over a period time. This new attention has drawn attention on how  mental health can have a negative impact on daily life, relationships, and physical health. What is mental health? Mental health is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a state of well-being in which an individual recognizes his or her own abilities, can cope with typical life stresses, can work successfully and fruitfully, and can contribute to his or her community. Mental health and psychoactive substance-related disorders are extremely common over the world, and they contribute significantly to morbidity, disability, and premature death. Mental health issues can be caused by a variety of reasons, including personal experiences, interpersonal relationships, and physical conditions. Taking care of one’s mental health can help them appreciate life more. This requires striking a balance between daily activities, duties, and psychological resilience efforts. Stress, despair, and anxiety can all influence a person’s mental health and interrupt their routine. Despite the widespread use of the phrase “mental health,” many diseases that doctors define as psychological disorders have physical underpinnings. Below are ways to take tackle the mental health . Look For Assistance : You wouldn’t try to “tough it out” if you had a bad toothache, so why would you do the same with your mental health? Don’t let the fear of being diagnosed with a mental disorder keep you from seeking assistance. Finding assistance through treatment and counseling can be really beneficial. Mental disorders are more complicated than diabetes or high blood pressure, but they can be treated in the same way. Speak Up Against Prejudice: When the opportunity arises, speak out against stigma surrounding mental health. Remind others that receiving treatment for a mental illness is just as vital as getting care for a physical illness. Do Not Be Driven By Stigma and Humiliation: While stigma can come from others, it is also very common in ourselves. Recognizing that you may be dealing with a mental health issue is not a show of weakness. It’s actually a sign of strength. Spend Time With Friends and Family: You might be hesitant to inform others about a mental health issue if you have one. One of the best ways to ensure you do not have to suffer alone is to be honest and upfront with individuals you care about. Speaking frankly about mental health issues may encourage others to get treatment.