• Accuse state chairman of high-handedness
• Urge Akeredolu to call state chairman to order
• Adetimehin refutes allegations, says accusers unfair to him Less than 48 hours to the primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, aspirants for the South Senatorial District election have warned that the imposition of a businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim, will cause crisis within the party. Five out of the six APC aspirants accused the state chairman of the party, Ade Adetimehin, of canvassing support for Ibrahim and threatening the delegates to vote for him. The aggrieved aspirants include Ambassador Sola Iji, the House of Representatives member representing Odigbo/Okeigbo-Ileoluji, Mayowa Akinfolarin; Morayo Lebi, Matthew Akinrinmade and Boye Oyewumi. They expressed dissatisfaction over the high-handedness of Adetimehin and his direct involvement in the campaign in the senatorial district ahead of the primaries of the party holding tomorrow. Iji, who led other aggrieved aspirants at a press conference in Akure yesterday, lamented that Adetimehin was canvassing openly for Ibrahim, saying the state party chairman has turned himself to be the Director-General of Jimoh Ibrahim Campaign Organisation. He said that Adetimehin’s action was in defiance to all assurances given by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu that the party would be neutral and ensure a level-playing ground for all aspirants. The former Ambassador to Togo alleged that Adetimehin had been polluting the political environment in the southern senatorial district, ordering delegates to vote for Ibrahim. HOWEVER, Adetimehin, has refuted the allegations against him, saying that he is not supporting any aspirant to win the ticket of the party. He described the allegations as not only untrue but unfounded. “This is nothing but a lie from the pit of hell. I can’t do such a thing. The governor has assured all of a level playing ground and this is my position too. I am the chairman and father of all. That is the role I am playing now. “We are all working towards the success of the primary election and those accusing me of that allegation are not being fair with me. I am a total party man and I am for all the aspirants. I am neither bias, nor supporting any of the aspirants.” 