Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has officially received the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms purchased by Plateau Legacy Group (PLG) to contest Plateau South Senatorial District seat in 2023. But the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) described the governor’s official declaration for the Senate seat on Saturday as a declaration of failure. A large crowd of All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters from the six local councils in Plateau South Senatorial District attended the official presentation of the forms at Shendam mini stadium. Also, women and youth groups have also presented forms they purchased for the Women Affairs Minister, Pauline Tallen, to contest the Senate seat in 2023. Tallen and Lalong, who are from the same senatorial district, are contesting on the same APC platform. Chairman of PLG, Yusuf Gagdi (representing Pankshin/Kanke/Kanam Federal constituency in the House of Representatives), said the group was convinced beyond reasonable doubt that the governor performed well in the zone, the state and Nigeria at large to merit the Senate slot. Gagadi said that PLG, which membership cut across the state, was passionate about sustaining the legacies of the governor, even after his tenure. Purchase of the form, he added, was also to thank the governor for his sense of justice and fairness in distributing projects across the local councils, as well as working for the peace, prosperity and progress of Northern Nigeria. Plateau APC Chairman, Rufus Bature, said the party received a boost with the governor’s acceptance to serve not only the people of Plateau South, but the entire state at the National Assembly. Bature charged them to remain united and work in synergy to deliver the governor and all other candidates of the party contesting various offices in the general election. He, however, warned traitors and fifth columnists that would want to destroy the fortunes of the party to have a rethink. Speaker, Plateau State House of Assembly, Yakubu Sanda, and Chairman of APC from the governor’s zone, Musa Nyalum, thanked the group. In his acceptance speech, Lalong said he was overwhelmed by the show of love and solidarity from the people of Plateau South and PLG that used their resources to purchase forms for him. “Having reflected on the demand of the people over the last few weeks and after consultations, I wish to announce, with all sense of humility and gratitude, that I have accepted the clarion call by the good people of Plateau South to serve as senator in 2023 by the grace of God. Meanwhile, PDP State Publicity Secretary, John Akans, alleged, yesterday, that Lalong’s administration wasted billions of naira belonging to the state on personal issues, while leaving salaries and pensions unpaid. 