 Vertiv (www.Vertiv.com/en-EMEA) (NYSE: VRT), a global provider of critical digital infrastructure and continuity solutions, today announced a distribution partnership with Tech First Gulf (TFG), a leading IT infrastructure and security value-added distributor.  With this partnership accelerating market presence over East Africa, Vertiv will enhance TFG’s existing portfolio with its robust power and IT infrastructure solutions for data centres and edge applications. Further, TFG provides its partners and customers with enhanced logistics support, easy credit and local currency payments and will act as an extended arm of Vertiv by providing end-to-end installation, as well as service and maintenance for clients. TFG positions itself as a “One-Stop-Shop” for their partners’ and customers’ digital infrastructure. With this partnership, TFG will onboard Vertiv’s comprehensive portfolio of IT technologies and services, including Liebert® uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) such as the Liebert® GXT5 UPS, an on-line double conversion UPS solution which offers premium power outage protection and continuous power conditioning in a compact and flexible rack/tower form factor, and dedicated software for partners and customers. Also included are Vertiv’s turn-key solutions such as Vertiv™ SmartCabinet™, a pre-configured, self-contained solution that off­ers the eff­iciency, economy, interoperability, and control to implement an exceptional infrastructure strategy. Simple to get up and running, as it maximises existing infrastructure, and offering administrators seamless control, SmartCabinet™ saves time on integration and installation when compared to selecting and installing individual rack, cooling, power and monitoring solutions. Hemant Mali, managing director of TFG & Susan W., country manager of TFG in Kenya, commented: “We are exhilarated to start this partnership with Vertiv, that will not only complete our infrastructure portfolio, particularly in the modular data center space, but also opens the Vertiv Partner Programme (VPP) (https://partners.Vertiv.com/) to our resellers, with benefits like training, incentives to grow with Vertiv and support required to quickly meet customer demands. With Vertiv we are confident to continue our journey of innovating and disrupting the IT infrastructure growth with Vertiv industry-leading infrastructure solutions.” “In the era of Industry 4.0, increasing interconnectivity and smart automation, this distribution partnership will provide customers in Eastern Africa with cutting-edge data center solutions and expertise to support their journey of digital transformation,” said Pierre Havenga, managing director of Vertiv in the Middle East and Africa region. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Vertiv. Contact:
Zenab Abbas
E Zenab.Abbas@Vertiv.com Rania El Rafie
E Rania.Elrafie@apo-opa.com About Vertiv:
Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to enable its customers’ vital applications to run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. Vertiv solves the most important challenges facing today’s data centers, communication networks and commercial and industrial facilities with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and services that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, USA, Vertiv employs approximately 24,000 people and does business in more than 130 countries. For more information, and for the latest news and content from Vertiv, visit Vertiv.com. Forward-Looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27 of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements are only a prediction. Actual events or results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement set forth herein. Readers are referred to Vertiv’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of these and other important risk factors concerning Vertiv and its operations. Vertiv is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward- looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.