 Ellen Degeneres Variety/WARNER BROS TELEVISION Ellen DeGeneres fought back tears on the final episode of her TV show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show.   The final episode of the nineteen-season long show, is scheduled to air on Thursday, May 26. In a newly released snippet from the show’s final episode, Ellen emerges from behind a screen, visibly oveEllen DeGeneres fought back tears on the final episode of her TV show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show.rwhelmed as the audience, including her wife Portia de Rossi and brother Vance DeGeneres in the front row, cheers. In the post shared on Twitter, she wrote, “Today we taped the final episode of The Ellen Show which airs on May 26.” “When we started this show in 2003, the iPhone didn’t exist. Social Media didn’t exist. Gay marriage wasn’t legal.” Today we taped the final episode of The Ellen Show which airs on May 26th. pic.twitter.com/akuukE3fw8 — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) April 29, 2022 “We watched the world change, sometimes for the better, sometimes not. But whatever was happening, my goal was always for the show to be a place where we could all come together and laugh for an hour.” “Being invited into your lives has been the greatest privilege of my life and has brought me incredible joy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.” For the final episode, Ellen will be joined by A-List guests Jennifer Aniston, P!nk, and Billie Eilish. Friends star Jennifer Aniston was the first guest on the Ellen show, and her appearance on the final episode marks her 20th appearance. Since the show first aired in 2003, it has featured several A-list celebrities, including Oprah Winfrey, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Mila Kunis, Justin Timberlake, Zac Efron and Bruno Mars. The news of the talk show ending first broke in May 2021 following allegations of toxic workplace that resulted in three top producers getting fired. Ellen confirmed the show’s end in a statement saying, “When you’re a creative person, you constantly need to be challenged — and as great as this show is, and as fun, as it is, it’s just not a challenge anymore.”