Eighteen young Nigerians from across the country were among the artists at this year’s Dak’Art Biennale, Africa’s most famous international art fiesta of contemporary art, which began in St Louis, Dakar on May 19, 2022. An announcement by the Art Director of LIMCAF, Dr. Ayo Adewunmi, who accompanied the prizewinners, said the artists, which included three female, were winners of the 2018, 2019 and 2021 top six prizes in the yearly Life In My City Art Festival (LIMCAF) competition for young Nigerian artists not older than 35 years of age. LIMCAF, a pan-Nigeria youth empowerment art competition, now in its 15th year, is currently the biggest and longest running contemporary art event in Nigeria. It draws an average of 500 entries from young artists every year. The Dakar Art Biennale is only one of several rewards in cash and career enhancing opportunities on offer every year. It is a special sponsorship, all expenses paid by Emeritus Professor El Anatsui one of Africa’s most renowned artists, who is also one of LIMCAF’s two patrons. The other patron is Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, Obi of Onitsha, while Elder K. U. Kalu, former Chairman of Union Bank, chairs the Board of Trustees. The young artists couldn’t take part in 2020 Dak’Art Biennale, because it did not hold in COVID-19 because of the pandemic. While in Senegal, they took part in a joint show with selected older artists , who are equally members of the Pan African Circle of Artists (PACA) in the one ‘Off’ exhibitions of the biennale. Earlier on, May 17, to be precise, the artists were guests to a sendforth private dinner given by the chairman of LIMCAF, Elder K. U. Kalu. Perhaps, the most striking part of the evening was the stories of the young artists, who were evidently overwhelmed by all that was happening, about their journey to LIMCAF and the prizes they eventually won. In a brief farewell speech, Kalu implored the young men and women to show their gratitude more by exemplary conduct, open-minded learning and full participation. He said they were proud beneficiaries of a policy of reward for merit regardless of origin or gender. Kalu noted that it was a thing of joy and pride for all who have assiduously invested their time and energy to keep the art festival these past 15 years, as well as “to be associated with the heights they have so far attained and hoped that LIMCAF and its sponsors will continue to invest in the career and economic empowerment of young people from all over the country for many more years to come.” The ‘LIMCAF 18’ came back home on Friday, May 27. 