Abimbola Yenukunme Ajose has expressed his interest to run for the Lagos State House of Assembly under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) to transform Badagry Constituency 1. According to him, he wants to lobby for the development of Badagry Division in the area of tourism development, water transportation, environmental management, provision of infrastructure, provision of affordable social services, education, health, transportation, and promotion of agriculture using modern technology. In a recent parley with newmen, Ajose states, “I have a very great dream for Badagry, I want it to be the Dubai of Nigeria. There are so many potentials, so many gifts in Badagry, every dream I have for Badagry is possible, namely; highrise buildings, organizations, schools for kids, teens and adults. Waterworks that will generate so much revenue, it’s a very beautiful picture and I can’t wait for everyone to see it.” Ajose’s love for Badagry has a long history, which shaped his orientation of the coastal city. The bond to the city could be traced to his grandfather and then his father. “My father had an unconditional love for the development of Badagry, every tangible development in the area of modern tourism development for Badagry was initiated by him. The attention of the world was drawn to Badagry through The Badagry Slave Route Project and the Black Heritage Festival in which my father was a major stakeholder,” he said. “I have a family line of Progressives in Badagry politics. My Grandfather, Honorable Samuel Abiodun Ajose was elected as a Councillor in the Egun Awori District Council representing Badagry Central from Badagry main town to Ajegunle. Seeing him do so much with pure intention and great passion shaped me greatly. “He gives hope politically and I’m certain that if he can do all this, I can pick it up from there and do much more,” Ajose added. Ajose, who was born May 24, 1988, asserted that he has so many memories attached to Badagry and thus committed to developing it. His mission, according to him, is to make Badagry Constituency 1, where he is seeking his mandate, a model constituency to other constituencies in Lagos. “I want it to be a development pacesetter for others. People should see the growth of Badagry Constituency 1 and be motivated to do the same for their own constituencies,” he said. 