Kaduna, Kebbi APC root for VP to succeed Buhari
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that his ability to attend to complex and sensitive issues when President Muhammadu Buhari was on medical vacation overseas stands him in good stead to lead the country from 2023. During his visit to Kaduna State on Sunday to meet with All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates, Osinbajo stated that the moves he made in those critical moments brought to the fore his capability to move the country forward, when given the opportunity. The Vice President, who visited Kaduna to solicit the delegates’ support in APC’s primary election, also explained the rationale behind his ambition to become the next president. According to him, when Buhari handed over power to him before one of his visits to London, he (Osinbajo) asked the President whether to report directly to him, but the President told him to take charge. He brandished his seven years’ experience in Aso Villa as the fillip for him to hit the ground running on his first day in office as elected president in 2023. Making a veiled reference to leaders, who took months to study the governance terrain, he said he would not spend time studying how to govern, since he is familiar with the system. In 2015, Buhari used a whole six months to pick the same old guard as his cabinet members. IN continuation of his nationwide consultations with APC delegates, commendations have continued to pour in from state governors and other stakeholders for Osinbajo. In Kebbi State, the stakeholders commended the VP for his efforts to improve governance, while canvassing for continuity in government. During the meetings, Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna and Kebbi State Deputy Governor Samaila Yombe spoke glowingly about the VP’s qualities, with a call for continuity. According to the Kaduna governor, Osinbajo is “the number one confidant of Buhari and has the respect of all the governors of Nigeria, across party lines, because of the way and manner he steers the affairs of the National Economic Council (NEC).” Yombe stressed the “need for continuity in government.” Kebbi APC Chairman, Alhaji Muhammadu Kana, noted the VP’s efforts in ensuring a peaceful and united country. The VP’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, said his principal noted that Nigeria was at a crucial stage in her history where continuity in government is needed to ensure the completion of many development projects started by the Buhari administration. At the palace of the Emir of Gwandu and Chairman, Kebbi State Traditional Rulers Council, Alhaji Muhammadu Bashar, the VP said: “I’ve served as vice president for the past seven years under Buhari. During that seven-year period, I have had the unique opportunity to work with an open and transparent president. “My experience is crucial, especially in governing a country of our size. This is why I decided to put myself forward to serve. There are other people vying for that position; several competent Nigerians and members of our party, the APC. We all know that all power belongs to God. He is the one who determines who rules; we can only hope and pray and put ourselves forward.” 