…says nothing left to share Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant, Peter Obi, has said there is nothing left again in Nigeria to share among states, stressing that if he wins presidential election, he would eliminate sharing formula and replace it with production formula. The presidential hopeful stated this in Port Harcourt, yesterday, during a meeting with Rivers State PDP delegates.  Obi said: “There is nothing left to share, nothing, anybody who is expecting any sharing should forget it, it is finished, we are now borrowing money. “That is why I said my basic function is to move the country from consumption to production, no more sharing formula. I am going to put production formula in place.” He said one of the problems that led the nation into perpetual borrowing was that most politicians live beyond their limits and failed to utilise available  resources to create job opportunities to pull youths out from poverty. “We must feed ourselves, we have a lot of land all over Nigeria, like Niger State has 76.3 Square kilometres of land and they cannot feed themselves, they cannot feed Nigeria. Netherlands is 33,000 square metres and they did $123 billion food export, more than what we earn from oil.” The state PDP Chairman, Desmond Akawor, said the party believed in people like Obi to move the nation forward.  He said: “When Governor Wike speaks, we thought he was the only one interested in the development of Nigeria but listening  to you today shows there are one or two more persons  that  are keen to see that  Nigeria  advances.” OBI stressed the message in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state while addressing delegates and PDP state executive on his intention to run for the office of the President of the country, at Atan Offot, Uyo. He also lamented poor security situation in the country, saying: “Today all you hear every morning when you wake up is one bad news or the other. If it is not banditry, it is killing, kidnapping, all kinds of bad news. You don’t wake up in Nigeria to hear good news, all you hear is bad news. “The question we now ask yourself is how did we get here, why are these things happening to us? It is cumulative of leadership failure over the years.”  He blamed past administrations in the country for treating investments in critical sectors of the economy with levity, especially the education sector, adding that, the poverty level in the country plays a prominent role in what the country was passing through. 