The gale of defection in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kano continued with the latest defectors jetting out of the ruling party with their large followers. Deputy Speaker, Kano State House of Assembly, Zubairu Hamza Massu, and former special adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on legislative affairs Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila announced their defection on Friday. Before the deputy speaker’s defection, 13 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had tendered their defection notice and decision to join New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). In a letter dated 12th May 2022, addressed to the APC Chairman Thursday evening, Massu sighted unjust treatment, inadequate internal democracy, and total marginalization of Kano south from the scheme of powers in the state. Although, Sumaila did not issue any formal complaint or reason why he was leaving APC, the former minority leader of the House of Representatives, staged mass mobilization of APC members and loyalists denouncing APC. Meanwhile, the Senator representing Kano central district, Ibrahim Shekarau may formally announce his defection from the ruling APC this weekend. The former Governor of Kano state and minister may join the NNPP alongside top aggrieved members of APC who felt maltreated by the party leadership under the Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, The Guardian learned. Other members leaving APC for NNPP include a former speaker and member representing Rano/Bunkure/Kibiya federal constituency, Kabiru Alhassan Rurum; Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila, Tijjani Abdulkadir Jobe, a member representing (Dawakin-Tofa/Tofa/ Rimin-Gado) federal constituency; Haruna Dederi, a federal lawmaker from Karaye constituency and host of others. It was gathered that Malam Shekarau’s decision to dump the APC was concluded at a stakeholders consultative (Shura) meeting held early this week. The leader of the G7 APC group was said to have left in dilemma on the alternative political strategy after the Supreme Court judgment which validated the Ganduje-backed APC leadership in Kano. However, it was learned that the APC leadership at the headquarters intervened on the aftermath of the court verdict with the understanding that some of the aggrieved G7 members including Malam Shekarau would be guaranteed a “return ticket”. “After it was agreed that the crisis would be amicably resolved through series of mechanisms, one of reconciliation mechanisms is guarantee return ticket to the G7 members. Incidentally, the music has changed,” a source told The Guardian. “The government has changed the rules of the game in the middle of game. When you ask someone to pick ticket and you also directed some of your favorite to also get the same ticket, what are you trying to do. We see the whole game plan as delibrate attempt to embarrass Malam at the primary and so we have to act quickly.” 