Kazaure monarch proffers solution to country’s woes For allegedly violating the Sallah tradition, the Emir of Zazzau, Ahmed Bamalli, has suspended four district heads. A statement issued by the Media and Publicity Officer to the Emirate, Abdullahi Kwarbai, pointed out that the suspension was with immediate effect. According to the statement, those suspended were Uban Garin Zazzau and District Head of Soba, Alhaji Bashir Idris; Sarkin Dajin Zazzau and District Head of Kubau, Alhaji Shehu Umar Aliyu; Wakilin Birnin Zazzau and House of Assembly member representing Zaria constituency, Alhaji Suleiman Dabo; and Garkuwan Kudun Zazzau and Bursar, Federal College of Education (FCE), Zaria, Alhaji Muhammad Uwais. Kwabai explained that the suspended district heads violated Article 3 of the Emirate Rules and Regulations governing Durbar horse-riding. He said: “The rule directs all title-holders against the use of local thugs known as Yan tauri brandishing local weapons during any occasion. “The four district heads have violated this rule during the traditional Sallah Durbar, despite series of warnings.” MEANWHILE, the Emir of Kazaure in Jigawa State, Alh. Najib Adamu, has said repentance and total submission to the will of God were the last options for the country’s socio- political and economic woes. Addressing his subjects in his domain during a mini Durbar organised in his honour by the Kazaure Emirate Kingmakers, District Heads, and others on the occasion of Eid-el-Fitr, he said: “All the social woes we are experiencing today were as a result of our bad behaviour such as disrespect for God’s commandments, wickedness within ourselves, lack of patriotism, nepotism, selfishness, greed and corruption.” According to the monarch, it is a pity to note that most Nigerians worship money above everything in life, which leads them to greed, corruption and other situations that negate progress and development. He reminded politicians to be steadfast, patriotic and eschew untoward behaviours that are innimical to the rule of law and security of the nation. “I urge our politicians to be decorous in playing the game and shun vices detrimental to peace and corporate existence of the country. “Let our politicians shun all vices that will bring disharmony and breach of law for an enduring polity,” Adamu added.