The Youth Coalition For Responsible Leadership (YCRL) has called on members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Lagosians to ignore claims by a group named Badagry Division Alliance for Ideal Democracy (BDAID) against an aspirant for the Lagos West Senatorial District, Dr Idiat Oluranti Adebule. The youth said the claims are part of desperate attempts and orchestration to discredit Dr Adebule. In a statement jointly signed by YCRL President Omotayo Ogunbiyi and Secretary Mary Emmanuel, they accused an aspirant for the same ticket of being behind the misinformation. “This faceless BDAID has made releases on social media and other platforms in their desperate attempt to muddy the waters to gain undue advantage for their paymaster. They even went to the extent of claiming to have official documents to prove their lies which turned out to be fake. The so-called BDAID threatened to file legal action with the intention to cause what happened to APC Zamfara in the Lagos West Senatorial District, which is a poor attempt at blackmail and which will be an effort in futility,” the group said. According to the coalition, Adebule duly complied with the APC regulations in the purchase, submission and screening processes. The coalition said: “When we first got wind of this information, we took up the challenge to check at the APC national secretariat, Abuja and through our sources, we obtained copies of the expression of interest and nomination forms submitted by Dr. Adebule as well as copy of the receipt of purchase of the forms. Advisedly, we will not share the forms publicly because we are interested in the so-called legal action BDAID threatened to file. It is therefore curious that this faceless organisation didn’t do their due investigation before rushing to the media to do the wicked bidding of their paymaster. “We are not surprised at this fraudulent antic; it is archetypal for some politicians to employ underhand tactics to win elections when they realise that they do not enjoy the favour of vast majority of voters; in this case, the delegates. However, from our findings, the wicked strategy is failing as overwhelming majority of delegates, members and leaders of the APC Lagos West have refuse to fall for it.” The coalition urged the delegates, leaders and members of APC Lagos West to disregard the false information, baseless and incompetent threats by this faceless group, who they alleged that they are working for one of the aspirants to discredit the process of the APC Lagos West Senatorial primary election. “Our advice for the crooked organisation is to approach the APC national secretariat for clarification on the status of Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule rather than spread wicked lies in an attempt to malign an aspirant before the contest in order to gain undue advantage for another aspirant. That is what a decent individual or group will do, if their intentions are genuine and geared towards making the electoral process fair and transparent,” they said. The coalition advised Dr Adebule to remain focused and continue her consultation with delegates and stakeholders of the APC in Lagos West. “We have been following the activities of most of the aspirants in Lagos State through our network of members and we are aware that Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule enjoys the confidence and overwhelming support of grassroot members of APC in Lagos West Senatorial District,” the coalition said. 