A Security expert, retired Maj.-Gen. Pat Akem-Vingir, has charged delegates of All Progressives Congress (APC) to shun vote selling and moneybags in the party’s forthcoming presidential primaries. He made the appeal on Sunday during a virtual political discourse tagged ‘Think Osinbajo’ with members of Osinbajo Think Tank Group. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Osinbajo Think Tank Group is a political support group projecting the aspiration of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. NAN reports that Akem-Vingir, a former Provost Marshal of the Nigerian Army, is a TV host, Publisher, lawyer, military strategist and certified Life/Leadership Coach. He advised the delegates to shun money bag politicians in the interest of peace and national unity. Akem-Vingir called on them to vote for Osinbajo, whom he described as the most prepared presidential aspirant of the party in the interest of national development. “I appeal to you (delegates) to think about your children and grandchildren. Think of what kind of Nigeria you want to bequeath to them rather than the money the money bags may give you,” he said. He described Osinbajo as the most fit for the job, saying he had never failed in his given mandates. “I have known Prof. Yemi Osinbajo for over 30 years now and I can boldly say he is the most prepared among all candidates. “He is intelligent, diligent and bold. He has presence of the mind and he knows how to build his network as well as teams,” he said. Akem-Vingir listed some possible areas of Osinbajo’s blue print to include improved roads construction, improved health care and better security architecture. He said that if elected as president, Osinbajo would loosen up the bureaucratic system that had been tying down the nation’s economy for years. Akem-Vingir said that for Nigeria to improve as a nation, it needed a democrat sush as Osinbajo as president to put in place peaceful policies that would create more jobs. “Osinbajo is a democrat, who believes in the power of the state, rights of Nigerians, rule of law. “We have seen him act in that manner many times. So it is only right for Nigerians to give him a chance to lead us,” he said. He appealed to delegates across nation to consider Osinbajo, a multi-ethnic sensitive man as their preferred candidate during the party primaries. Akem-Vingir added that Osinbajo’s intellectual history matched the political tides in the country, noting that he had brought his dynamism to bare during his short stay as the Acting President of Nigeria. “VP Osinbajo understands Nigeria, no doubt. He understands the socio-economic dynamics of the nation and the problem that is precipating insecurity. “He will definitely tackle insecurity with a new strategy that will stop the menace,” he said. 