Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a rights group, Citizens Intervention and Accountability Network (CIAN), has embarked on advocacy campaigns, urging Nigerians to turnout in the upcoming general elections and vote for the best candidates. The group urged Nigerians to believe in the electoral process and put aside the negative mindset that the election will be rigged and greeted with malpractices The group’s Director of the Information and Strategy, Dr Cadyfidel Onwuraokoye, while speaking at the book launch titled, “Nigeria’s Next President,” in Abuja, said the essence of the book was to address the issue of voter apathy that has become prevalent in every election year. He stated that to ensure better and eligible representations to govern the country, the electorate must take an active part in politics. He said: “For too long, we have yearned for a better tomorrow, better country and mourned a better yesterday, hoping that one day, things will change and get better. “But rather, we are being confronted with new woes that demand Nigerians in their collective effort to rise up and do something. They should not compromise the voting power for ephemeral economic gains, popularly called ‘stomach infrastructure. “Nigerians must believe in themselves and their sovereign voting power, and trust the electoral process. “We must not continue to cast aspersion on the electoral process, and with the negative mindset that election will be rigged and greeted with malpractices.” He noted that as part of the efforts to make the upcoming general elections better than the former ones, the book will be translated to Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba, Efik, and Pidgin English, and made available free of charge to 20 million Nigerians ahead of 2023 general elections. “The print will also be converted into audio mp3s in such simplicity that an ordinary uneducated and uninformed mind can comprehend. We kindly appeal for your financial support to make that happen,” he added. On his part, former governor of Anambra State, Chukwuemeka Ezeife, who was the father of the day at the event, said the book was timely, as Nigerians are getting ready to elect another new President. He said: “Politicians have lost conscience. I am one of the politicians. They have no place for fairness, justice and equity. With that kind of a thing, you cannot have a good country. “The manifest destiny of Nigeria is to develop into a superpower and raise the respect and dignity of all blacks on earth and our children are beginning to do that.” 