With users’ needs in mind, Bundle launched the first version of its mobile app that has developed over the years as one of the easiest crypto trading platforms in Africa. Starting with only three assets at its initial launch, Bundle has now grown to over 80 assets and over 700,000 users across Nigeria and Ghana. Despite regulatory pushback, Bundle has been able to cater to the needs of its user base through the integration of Cashlink, a P2P payments platform, which has served as a gateway for crypto to cash transfers. With over a million transactions within its first seven months, the success of Cashlink can be attributed to the escrow system which mitigates fraud from either side of the transaction. With the aim of helping users mitigate loss during a bear crypto market, they built simple tools to help users by releasing Bundle Leveraged Token (BLVTs) series that gives users the ability to hold leverage on a cryptocurrency that can either multiply the loss or profit on an asset. Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel Babalola, said to promote the wider adoption of cryptocurrencies and further set the minds of people at ease, trading should be as easy and convenient as possible for all people. “As Bundle continues to grow, the need to evolve into its original mission becomes pertinent — a social finance app making crypto accessible to everyone. Bundle will be expanding across the continent this quarter which signifies the first step in the right direction, alongside implementations to pivot into a social finance product,” he stated. On the issue of the multiple scam accounts across social media platforms, Bundle explained that they working hand in hand with their risk and compliance team to remove these phishing accounts. They are also set to release a 2FA security feature to further protect its users. Bundle users are implored to ensure that any dealings on Twitter and Instagram are with their official handles. They wouldn’t ask you to click on any link or share your OTP with them.