Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State have described presidential aspirant Mohammed Hayatu-Deen’s transformational successes as the right expertise Nigeria needs. They made this known when Hayatu-Deen made a courtesy call on former Vice President Namadi Sambo where he urged delegates to not be emotional about their choices, while also promising to work for the good of all Nigerians. Former Vice President Sambo, while exalting the Hayatu-Deen’s dedication, diligence and integrity, said he has known Hayatu-Deen since the aspirant’s days at the New Nigeria Development Corporation, where he (Hayatu-Deen) became managing director and chief executive officer at the young age of 30. Former Kaduna State governor and Chairman of the PDP, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, also extolled the leadership qualities of Hayatu-Deen. He said: “Mohammed Hayatu-Deen is one of our leading presidential aspirants who has spent his life living and working in Nigeria. He is a dedicated and balanced person who carries Nigeria in his heart and I know he will do well. “In assessing him, his pedigree speaks for itself. I am sure the coordinators will do well for him and Kaduna state. We will do everything for PDP’s success.” The Kaduna State Chairman of the PDP, Hon. Felix Hassan Hyat, on his part, expressed the same sentiments about Hayatu-Deen. “Mohammed Hayatu-Deen is one of the most qualified candidates we have. We are aware of who he is and he has demonstrated it today,” he said. “He is a sound, knowledgeable leader who has achieved a lot. We join our leader, His Excellency, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, in recognizing your dexterity and success. “If you have succeeded in your businesses, you will succeed in leading the country. He that is faithful in little will be faithful in much. We join your supporters and well-wishers to pray that God gives you to us as the leader of our nation.” In response, Hayatu-Deen promised, “I make a solemn pledge that if I have your votes, I will keep my promise to do everything to work for Nigeria and the Nigerian people.”