• Group berates senator for dumping party
• Says arrangement on ticket party’s best interest The senator representing Oyo South Senatorial District, Kola Balogun, has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Balogun’s decision was conveyed in a letter to Chairman of the party in Ward 12, Ibadan North-East Local Council. In the letter, dated April 28, 2022, which was received and acknowledged by the PDP Ward Chairman, Tijani Wasiu, the senator stated no reason for dumping the party.
He said: “I, Kola Balogun, the senator currently representing Oyo South Senatorial District at the Ninth Senate, hereby tender my membership resignation from the Peoples Democratic Party, with effect from today, April 28, 2022. “I thank the party for giving me  opportunity to serve  as a senator and the co-operation.” MEANWHILE, a socio-political organisation, Oyo Kajola Group, has described the  resignation of Balogun from the PDP as unreasonable and a demonstration of ingratitude towards Governor Seyi Makinde. In a statement, yesterday, Media Co-ordinator of the group, Adebayo Ayandele, described Balogun’s action as an act of ingratitude and self-conceitedness. It stated that the senator’s attack on Makinde over the Oyo South PDP senatorial ticket for the 2023 election was unfair, baseless and self-serving. It particularly expressed disappointment in Senator Balogun for dragging the name of the Olubadan of Ibadanland into the arena with a view to causing bad blood between Ibadan people and Governor Makinde. According to the group, “Senator Balogun’s vituperations and conduct were unconscionable and condemnable and amounted to poisoning the same river he drank from in 2019, wondering how his alleged failure to secure the PDP ticket has got to do with the Olubadan.” The group said the claim that Makinde denied him the second term ticket because he would not be able to control the Balogun family, with one as the Olubadan and the other as senator, is not only childish but also farcical.