Two persons are to serve jail terms in North Central Nigeria for vandalising electricity infrastructure as an utility company decried impacts of vandals on power supply. While vandalism has been partly blamed for the dismal electricity generation in the country, vandals in Nige r and Kogi state, were yesterday convicted for vandalising infrastructure belonging to Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC). The company, in a release, noted that maximum punishment will not be withheld from any one who engages in asset vandalisation.
Chief Marketing Officer of AEDC, Donald, Etim disclosed that a staff of the company, Bamidele Rasaq, who was arrested by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Kogi State, has been charged to a Chief Magistrates Court and sentenced to one-year imprisonment over his involvement in the vandalism of AEDC installations. In the light of this arrest, Etim stated that the company has zero tolerance for vandalism of its network assets irrespective of whether perpetrators of such actions are staff of the company or members of the general public. He disclosed further that disciplinary measures would be taken, including outright dismissal and loss of all employee benefits. According to him, vandalism of electricity network infrastructure remained a serious offence punishable with a Maximum Sentence of Life Imprisonment under Section 1(9) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act LFN 2004. Etim said an upper Sharia Court sitting in Minna, Niger State, equally handed a one-year jail term to one Abdulsalamad Abubakar, who was caught vandalizing an AEDC substation in Paida junction of Minna. According to him, Abdulsalamad, who was apprehended in the criminal act on the 29th of March, 2022 by an official of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF), was charged to court for contravening Sections 123 and 385 of the Sharia Penal Code law of Niger state, which prescribes five years’ imprisonment punishment for the offense. Etim said the convict had earlier been paraded before journalists by the NPF ahead of his arraignment in court, alongside numerous items found in his possession, which include: 15-meter XLPE cable; 300mm incomer cable and 5 meters of 150mm. “The Management will not relent in its effort to tackle vandalism and other mischief on its Network. We are committed to ensuring that apprehended vandals are tried in accordance with the law and made to face the consequences of their actions without any prejudice,” Etim said.