Carbon Cleaning Nigeria, the country’s leading solution for eliminating carbon buildup in internal combustion engines, is setting out to tackle the growing  Tokunbo challenge with the launch of a dedicated program. The new engine protection scheme for second-hand vehicles aims to help Nigerians get more from their used cars, reviving the engine performance to near-new status,  extending engine life, and maximising the resale value. Known as the ValueCare Program, Carbon Cleaning Nigeria’s pre-owned engine protection initiative offers a moneyback guarantee and is specifically designed to help Tokunbo cars operate more efficiently, and last longer. Under  the scheme, Tokunbo vehicle owners can have their engines fortified through  a series of treatments developed from working with our OEM partners including  Carbon Cleaning International, France; JLM additives, Netherlands, K-seal, USA and Valvoline International, USA. The engine carbon cleaning treatment is combined with a suite of specially formulated premium additives from JLM additives and K-Seal; as well as the radiator coolant from Valvoline, which fortifies and strengthens the engine. The treatment is designed to revive both the engine performance and throttle response while simultaneously protecting against overheating, leaking engine block or gasket head or engine failure. The process can also significantly help to prevent excessive oil consumption, improve fuel economy, and keep running costs to a minimum. Mr Sope Babaniji, CEO & Managing Director of Carbon Cleaning Nigeria, says,  “Tokunbo vehicles are a lifeline for a huge portion of the Nigerian population,  yet they’re also putting our health and safety at risk, draining our finances, and  hindering our efforts to live more responsible, more environmentally friendly  lifestyles. At Carbon Cleaning Nigeria, we’re thrilled to be launching our new  pre-owned engine protection program with a moneyback guarantee; a  dedicated scheme helping to make Tokunbo cars safer, more efficient, more  cost effective in the long term, and ultimately more enjoyable to drive”. It’s reported that more than 90% of Nigerians struggle to buy Tear Rubber,  instead having little option but to select a used Tokunbo car shipped in from  abroad. However, while these cars may cost less upfront, their maintenance  costs can be remarkably high as they are not only used, but in many cases also  old. Research shows that the average age of a car on the road in Nigeria is 16 years. These cars are more likely to suffer with poor performance, poor fuel efficiency,  and may also be more dangerous to drive. Through Carbon Cleaning Nigeria’s  new ValueCare Program, used vehicles are given a new lease of life, with  harmful and damaging carbon buildup removed, weathered seals restored  and engine block leaks sealed. Finally, Tokunbo cars can deliver on what they  promise: a convenient, low-cost way for Nigerians to get on the road and  manage their everyday tasks with ease. To register for ValueCare, visit www.carboncleaningng.com/valuecare, or  learn more about Carbon Cleaning Nigeria at www.carboncleaningng.com About Carbon Cleaning Nigeria uses a unique hydrogen-powered decarbonizing  machine to remove carbon buildup in an internal combustion engine in as little  as 30 minutes. Over the years, we’ve learned and continue to learn how to  make Tokunbo cars work better and last longer. The addition of specially  formulated fuel and oil additives from our OEMs completes our secret recipe  to transform any Tokunbo engine. Carbon Cleaning Nigeria helps Nigerians  save money by extending the lifespan of their vehicles and reducing the need  for costly replacements. Contact Sparrows Dynamic Innovations Ltd Media contact: Segun Adebayo Email: segun.a@carboncleaningng.com Tel: 0902 878 8175 or 0812 101 8953