Bitcoin (BTC) has long ruled the crypto industry having become the first-ever cryptocurrency after launching in 2009. At its current price of $30,430.56, at this time of writing, Bitcoin has amassed a stunning market cap worth over $580 billion. With Bitcoin consistently setting the market and leading the way, other major coins are constantly chasing Bitcoin and its number one spot as the biggest cryptocurrency in the world, according to data from CoinMarketCap. The likes of Mobox (MBOX) and the newly-established Sanzooz Finance (SZFT) are attempting to find their way in an ever-changing digital asset industry. Sanzooz Are the high expectations too high for Sanzooz Finance (SZFT)? Expectations on cryptocurrency projects at times are ridiculously high due to the loyal communities of these projects as well as the attitude among some crypto investors that any cryptocurrency could shoot up and become an overnight success. That’s exactly the attitude that crypto users should not have in the industry. Sanzooz Finance (SZFT) is a project that crypto users should be excited about due to its versatility and the options it provides to further the cause of the DeFi market. The platform is an Ethereum-based protocol for decentralised asset issuance, where these artificial assets will be collateralised by the Sanzooz Network Token (SZFT), which, when locked in a contract, enables the creation of artificial assets. In an attempt to revolutionise the existing DeFi artificial assets market, Sanzooz has laid out its roadmap with the smart contract audit, the launch of the ERC-20 SZFT token on mainnet and the launch of the SZFT token via PancakeSwap, all to come into play in the second quarter of 2022. Sanzooz has the potential to do great things in the DeFi industry and it won’t be long before we hear of their major plans to recreate the space. Bitcoin (BTC) remains supreme As the original cryptocurrency, Bitcoin (BTC) has gone from strength to strength. Bitcoin After breaking the $67,000 mark back in November 2021, the ultimate dream of BTC reaching $100,000 looked as realistic as possible but those plans soon came crashing down. A crypto crash in January 2022 meant Bitcoin lost 10% of its value and a subsequent crash in May wiped off over $200 billion from BTC’s overall market cap. The king of crypto rebounded soon after, breaking the $30,000 mark. Mobox (MBOX) continues to rise through the ranks Mobox (MBOX) is a decentralised blockchain-based play-to-earn (P2E) gaming platform that is built on Binance Smart Chain (BSC). Rising 5.0% in the past 24 hours, the increasingly improving market performance from MBOX is a far cry from its 55.5% dip this past month. MBOX’s all-time high of $15.44 was reached in December 2021 but just six months on and its current price is over 92% below its ATH. According to Price Prediction, MBOX will reach a price of $1.26. Presale: https://sale.sanzooz.finance/register Website: http://sanzooz.finance Telegram: https://t.me/Sanzooz_Finance