Vice President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has expressed optimism that the party will win the presidential election, if well organised. The Vice President stated this, yesterday, at the Rivers State APC secretariat during an interactive session with delegates, as part of his consultation visits. Osinbajo noted that the unity of the party is key for its victory in 2023, stressing that the APC had the potential to better the lot of Nigerians. He said: “If we have a better logic, if we have a better argument and if we are better organised, ultimately we will win and I am very confident that the APC is poised to win even in this state (Rivers) and we will win in our country at large. “Our party is obviously, as you know, not just the ruling party but the party that has the greatest potential to do the best for this country. So, every little problem that we have, we are going to resolve it because we have the capacity and the maturity to resolve all of those conflicts and problems.” Osinbajo, who noted that he was in the state to consult with party delegates, said the party is rich with eminent people that share the same aspiration as progresives, regretting that only one person would emerge as the candidate of the party. He also commended the party in the state for being steadfast as the opposition. “Everyone in APC is proud of the APC in Rivers State because those of us who have been in the opposition long enough know what it means to be an opposition party. “We in Lagos were in the opposition for 16 years, so we know what it is and we know how we can be oppressed when we are in opposition and how difficult it is to survive. That you are vibrant and able to come together in this large number show that you have a vision, that you know where you are headed and you are led by a competent executive.
“I am here as the presidential aspirant alongside several great aspirants including your son, Rotimi Amaechi,” he said.