The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has directed its members to resume work today. Recall that the union had on May 16, 2022 embarked on a two-week warning strike to protest Federal Government’s non-fulfilment of aspects of a memorandum of action it signed with the union in 2021. In a statement signed by ASUP National Publicity Secretary, Abdullahi Yelwa, yesterday, the union said it noticed significant implementation of its demands. These include: commencement of payment of arrears of the new minimum wage in all affected federal polytechnics; isolated cases of underpayment and omissions are being handled at institution levels; approval and release of regulatory instruments for accreditation of institutions, management and programmes; four regulatory instruments that address issues around accreditation activities, which were reviewed in 2021, were approved and released to the public through the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) website. He said: “This issue shall provide a policy framework to address the challenges in state-owned institutions. Already, implementation is ongoing, as a decision has been taken on the situation in Abia State Polytechnic, where salaries are owed for 34 months. The proprietor (Abia State Government) has been duly communicated. “A decision has also been taken on the vexed issue of victimisation of union officials in Institute of Management and Technology, Enugu, where five of our officers were dismissed due to their participation in the 2017 strike of the union. “The issue of continued infractions in the Federal Polytechnics Act, as typified by the release of a contentious template for appointment of principal officers by the Federal Ministry of Education, was also handled, as the document is due to be withdrawn as agreed. “Consequently, the union is requesting members to resume duties effective May 30, 2022, while hoping that government will take advantage of the window to address the five outstanding items. “Further directives/updates shall be released after the 103rd meeting of the National Executive Council, which is scheduled to hold in June 2022, during which the situation shall be reviewed.” 