There have been several governorship primaries of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State since the return of democratic rule in 1999, none had been as tension-soaked and ardous as the last one held on May 26 at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba.
 
Whereas there have been contests for the party’s ticket among aspirants, this last one was also a proxy contest and supremacy battle between Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and former governor, Chief James Ibori, over who is more influential in the state’s political affairs. By Thursday night, the result was obvious, as Ibori’s choice and Okowa’s former chief of staff, David Edevbie, lost the primary election to Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, long rumoured to be the governor’s pick, by 590 to 113 votes from 825 accredited delegates. Either way, one could say it is a win-win for the Ibori political family, perhaps not for its leader. Ahead of the 2007 general elections, Ibori, then governor, from Delta Central senatorial district, singlehandedly picked his cousin, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, from Delta South, as his successor, against all odds and despite voiced and muted protests from stakeholders.
 
And when Uduaghan’s second term was ending in 2014, he chose the then permanent secretary, Government House, the late Tony Obuh, to succeed him. This almost caused a revolt and culminated in implosion within that political family and took the mastery of Okowa and a few others to snatch that ticket from Uduaghan’s pick, Edevbie, after he dumped Obuh, despite the understanding that power should rotate to Delta North.
 
The battle-line that climaxed in Thursday’s outcome had been drawn about one year ago and several efforts at different meetings to unite the two main camps proved abortive, as Ibori insisted on Edevbie. A politician in the state hinted that Okowa and his strategists ostensibly had not forgotten the 2014 episode, and it must have been too late for Edevbie to erase that memory.
 
Months back, there were rumours that the governor may have anointed the Speaker, but this was continuously denied by government officials. The governor himself consistently dismissed it, promising a level-playing field for all aspirants. But gradually, political office holders were moving, as Oborevwori’s consultations train was constantly on the move and he was at the same time gaining momentum across the state, with the support of his colleagues in the Assembly, who it seemed, were mandated to deliver their respective constituencies.
 
The closest inkling of what was to play out last Thursday started trickling in during the House of Assembly, House of Representatives and senatorial primaries, where Uduaghan’s daughter, Orode, lost in her bid for Warri North State Constituency to Fred Martin by seven to 25 votes. Former governor of Delta State James Ibori Oborevwori  MEANWHILE, Oborevwori has been dragged to court over alleged discrepancy in his certificates submitted to INEC. The suit, filed at the Federal High Court in Asaba by Ojei Victor Obianuju, Maize and Associates Farmers, has the Speaker, PDP and INEC as defendants.
 
In the Affidavit, the plaintiffs stated that the 1st defendant allegedly wrote his Primary Six examination in 1977 with the name Oborevwori O. Francis, while he wrote his West African Senior School Certificate examination in June 1999 with the name Oborevwori O. Francis. Edevbie 