• Arsenal, Spurs Battle For Top Four Continues
In what has been a tough season for coaches and players, fans of the English Premier League have been entertained with wonder goals, dribbling, incredible passes, and unexpected comebacks. But with 37 matches played so far, the team to lift the EPL title tomorrow is not yet known. In fact, the race for the top four has dragged on to the last day of the EPL. No doubt, the crown lies between Liverpool and Manchester City, but who would be crowned the king of English football at the final whistle tomorrow? All 10 matches will be played simultaneously tomorrow, and DStv will bring exclusive coverage of all the games. Most likely, many fans would have their eyes on Liverpool Vs Wolverhampton and Manchester City Vs Aston Villa. These two matches will air on SuperSport PSL (DStv channel 202) and SuperSport Maximo 1 (DStv channel 241) at 4 PM. With one point behind first-placed Man City, Liverpool will welcome Wolves at Anfield. Senegalese star, Sadio Mane, has been incredible this season, winning three trophies; The African Cup of Nations, The FA Cup, and the Carabao Cup. With 15 goals and two assists in the Premier League, the 30-year-old is a Ballon d’Or contender and winning the EPL while still eyeing the UEFA Champions League, will nudge him closer to the award. His teammate, Mohamed Salah, needs the title as much as Mane. Ruthless against the defensive line of his opponents, Salah has 22 goals this season and is expected to replicate his goal-scoring ability on the final day. But Liverpool’s hope of lifting the cup for the second time since Jurgen Klopp joined the club in 2015 lies on Manchester City losing to Aston Villa or being held to a draw. That’s a lot to ask for. Riyad Mahrez’s wonder goal was overturned in quick succession at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium on May 4, 2022, forcing Pep Guardiola’s side to lose out in the Champions League final. All that is left for 31-year-old Mahrez to reckon with is the EPL title. If Manchester City defeat Aston Villa, Mahrez would have won the title for the third time since joining Manchester City in 2018 and the fourth time in his career. With playmaker, Kevin De Bruyne, Phil Foden, and Gabriel Jesus all hinted to start against the impressive Steven Gerrard side, the Algerian player is likely to have his way. However, it is not only Liverpool and Manchester City fans who would be on edge tomorrow. The fourth position is far from being decided. Arsenal’s grip on the fourth position suffered a devastating setback on Monday, May 16, when Newcastle City humbled the Gunners in a 2-0 win. Failing to win or even secure a point against Newcastle, Arteta’s hopes to make it into the Champions League next season rest on beating Everton, who just escaped the red zone, while praying that Tottenham would lose their game. Again, that’s a lot to wish for as Tottenham is playing against relegated Norwich City, which has not won a game since their six consecutive matches. Son Heung-min, who is in a race with Salah for the golden boot has scored 21 goals this season. His pair with Harry Kane have proven disruptive for EPL defenders. Their hope of sealing their fourth position and qualifying for the Champions League lies with Spurs having the maximum three points. It appears that Antonio Conte and his team would settle for nothing less. To qualify for Europa League, the sixth-placed Manchester United would have to win against Crystal Palace, and the game would be live on SuperSport Variety 4 (DStv channel 209) while Brighton Vs West Ham United would be live on SuperSport 0TT3 (DStv channel 247). Chelsea Vs Watford on SuperSport Variety 4 (DStv channel 209), Brentford Vs Leeds SuperSport OTT7 (DStv channel 951), Burnley Vs Newcastle SuperSport OTT8 (DStv channel 952), and Leicester Vs Southampton SuperSport 0TT4 (DStv channel 248) will all be live at 4 PM. It will be a Super Sunday with the ceremony of crowning the winner of the EPL 2021-2022 season shortly after the matches. 