Guinness Nigeria Plc, a subsidiary of Diageo Plc, has opened its new state-of-the-art headquarters, a modern space designed to resonate the company’s mission – ‘celebrating life, every day everywhere’ – in Ogba, Lagos. The opening, which coincided with its 72nd anniversary, was part of efforts of the organisation to develop newer and more strategic ways of working, enhancing collaboration and productivity, promoting creativity and sustaining its business operations. During the ceremony, Board Chair, Guinness Nigeria, Dr. Omobola Johnson, said the new headquarters would create an environment where all employees and other stakeholders feel included and able to perform at their best. “We recognise our employees’ needs, especially after working remotely for so long. So, we have created a modern and agile workspace designed for maximum connectivity, collaboration and connection in line with the new world of work,” Johnson said. The Managing Director, Baker Magunda, revealed that the initiative reaffirmed the company’s commitment to its drive towards sustaining its long-term business goals in the country. “This reestablishes Guinness Nigeria as a forward-thinking organisation. We remain committed to developing the capacity to grow our brands and optimise performance to cater to the needs of our consumers while creating the right environment for all stakeholders to thrive. “The move represents a significant shift, not just in where we work but how we work, enabling us to eliminate boundaries, be more connected, and be more future-focused. For us, this represents ‘the future of work’. We have created an environment where all our employees feel included; our diversity and inclusion culture is enhanced and our people are empowered to maximise their full potential through effective collaborations, creativity and improved connections within the business and value chain. “We are proud of what we do and how we do them. Our drive for constant improvement has seen us evolve to where we are today. We exhibit the highest standard of employee engagement. This facility will provide a work environment where people can thrive. With a fully-equipped gym and a stunning bar where meetings will be held, ideas will transpire, meals shared, cocktails poured, and moments celebrated.” 