Junior Chamber International has called on employers to improve the working conditions of remote workers, as millions of people celebrate International Labour Day all over the world. Olawale Bakare, the president of JCI in Nigeria, said the government must find a way to end the weeks-old strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. “This year’s workers’ day is a good opportunity to lend a voice in unity, demanding for improved labour rights and to request safe working conditions,” Bakare said in a statement. “Employers should grow from the antique mentality of profitability to the new idea of humanity and growth. Employees are the most critical stakeholders in the success of any organization.” Bakare urged employers in Nigeria to embrace changing work culture, noting that the concept of working 8-5 pm within the confines of an office is giving way to remote work culture. He advised that remote working did not mean workers would always be at the beck and call of their employers at every hour of the day. Employers, he said, must also not neglect the standard practices of a workplace. “We must not shy away from the attendant issues of lack of respect for work hours by employers and the resultant mental health issues caused by burnout of remote workers,” Bakare said. “More than anytime as well, in the name of cost-saving, organisations are seen investing less in the development of the workforce. This is why as an organization, JCI launched the JCI RISE initiative focused on the future of jobs, sustaining and rebuilding economies while conversely preserving mental health and well being. “With this initiative, we can reimagine the way our businesses and communities work. We have the unique opportunity to look at our traditional ways of doing things and find new paths that will make the workplace a better place for our workers. “It is also very important that we recognize the significant contribution and the role of higher institutions and lecturers to building competent workforces for our nation. It is therefore lamentable and somewhat ironical that on a day like this, there is an ongoing months-long ASUU strike; a strike which effectively prevents one of the most important institutions in the country from doing their noble job of continually moulding the workforce of tomorrow. “It is in this light, the spirit of May Day that the entire leadership of JCI Nigeria sends out a plea for all necessary quarters to come to progressive terms and the ASUU strike be suspended.” 