The Nigerian Army, yesterday, condemned the killing of two of its officers on their way to their traditional wedding ceremony in Owerri by suspected gunmen. Audu Linus and Gloria Matthew were on their way to Imo for their traditional marriage, on Saturday, when they were murdered. The Nigerian Army, however, said it would ensure that those responsible for the act did not go unpunished. Reacting to the development in a statement made available to The Guardian in Enugu, yesterday, Nigerian Army’s Director of Public Relations, Brig. Onyema Nwachukwu, accused the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Eastern Security Network (ESN) as being responsible for the dastardly act. Nwachukwu said: “The Nigerian Army (NA), on Saturday, received information on the gruesome, barbaric and most despicable manner in which members of IPOB and its armed affiliate, ESN, murdered, in cold blood, two soldiers, Master Warrant Officer  (MWO) Audu M. Linus (retired) and Private (Pte) Gloria Matthew, who were on transit to Imo for their traditional wedding. “Apparently, the soldiers had embarked on the trip to fulfill the traditional marriage rites. “Ironically, the fact that one of the soldiers, Matthew, hails from Nkwerre Local
Council of Imo, did not prevail on the sensibility of the dissidents. “This dastardly act clearly portends the deep seated hate, desperation and lawlessness with which foot soldiers of IPOB/ESN have been unleashing terror on Ndigbo, whom they claim they are on a mission to protect and emancipate, as well as other innocent Nigerians, who are resident or transiting the South East. “This gruesome murder, in which they did not spare their own child, clearly depicts callousness, impenitence and is a brazen act of terrorism perpetrated by IPOB/ESN. “Though the dissident groups have continued to live in denial, while masquerading as unknown gunmen in their criminal violent campaign in the region, the Nigerian Army will ensure the perpetrators of this act unleashed on its personnel do not go unpunished.”