Federal High Court, Abuja, will today, hear the bail application filed by the former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha. Justice Inyang Ekwo fixed the date after the lawyer to Okorocha, Okey Amaechi, told the court that a bail application had been filed on behalf of his client, following his no-guilty plea. The current senator representation Imo West’s bail request would be taken alongside his co-defendant, Anyim Nyerere Chinenye’s bail plea, who also filed the motion through his counsel, Darlington Onwunzurumba. After the matter was called, EFCC’s attorney, Gbolahan Latona, stated that a 17-count charge dated January 24 and filed January 31, was before the court. Okorocha, who is the 1st defendant, was arraigned along with Chinenye, Naphtali International Limited, Perfect Finish Multi Projects Limited, Consolid Projects Consulting Limited, Pramif International Limited and Legend World Concepts Limited as 2nd to 7th defendants. He was alleged to have laundered N2.9 billion while serving as Imo governor. Shortly after the counts were read to the duo, Okorocha and Chinenye pleaded not guilty. Justice Ekwo also entered a not-guilty plea for the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh defendants, who held brief for Maduabuchi, and did not oppose the request. Latona, who asked for a trial date, told the court that they have arranged for 15 witnesses to testify, most of them outside the jurisdiction due to the peculiarity of the case. The matter was then adjourned till November 7, 8,9,10 and 11 for commencement of trial. But Amaechi, who is Okorocha lawyer, told the court that considering the adjourned dates, they plan to file an application challenging the competence of the charge. He also said a motion for his client’s bail, dated and filed on May 26, was for immediate action. Latona, who acknowledged receipt of the bail application, indicated his intention to oppose it. Lawyer of Chinenye (second defendant) said he filed a bail application on behalf of his client. The judge, who fixed May 31 for the hearing of the bail application, ordered the lawmaker and his co-defendant (s) to be remanded in EFCC custody pending the hearing and determination of the motions.