Download logo Energy Capital & Power (ECP) (www.EnergyCapitalPower.com) is proud to announce that Paul Eardley-Taylor, Head of Oil and Gas, Standard Bank, will be speaking at West Africa’s official energy event, MSGBC Oil, Gas & Power 2022.  Taking place from September 1-2 in Dakar, Senegal, the conference represents the official meeting place for the MSGBC region’s energy elite and offers the perfect platform for discussions, networking and deal-making. Through his speaker confirmation, Eardley-Taylor has taken on a proactive role in the event, and will travel to Dakar in September to lead discussions on hydrocarbon financial solutions, natural gas monetization and elevating investment attractiveness in 2022 and beyond. As the Head of Oil and Gas at Standard Bank, Eardley-Taylor is responsible for the institution’s oil and gas sector activities for southern Africa. With over 20 years’ experience in the energy corporate and investment landscape, specifically in the fields of oil, gas, renewables and power, while offering 10 years’ experience as an adviser, banker and financier, Eardley-Taylor is well-positioned to lead the discussion on investment in the MSGBC energy industry. Following the region’s recent hydrocarbon success driven by large-scale projects such as the 15 trillion cubic feet (tcf) Greater Tortue Ahmeyim (GTA) project; the 13 tcf BirAllah development; the 20 tcf Yakaar-Teranga project; and the 100,000 barrel per day Sangomar development, regional energy leaders are focused on securing investment to kickstart a hydrocarbon revolution in the basin. While GTA (phase one) and Sangomar reached a final investment decision (FID) in 2018 and 2020, respectively, significant opportunities are available for investors in other emerging projects. Currently, phase two of GTA is targeting FID in Q4 2022, Kosmos and bp are nearing FID for Yakaar-Teranga, while BirAllah’s developers hope to mimic the success of GTA with FID timelines unclear. The MSGBC region’s investment attractiveness stems from the role gas continues to play in global supply chains as well as the region’s enabling environment that drives foreign participation. With the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict threatening global supply chains, international nations are looking at breaking ties with Russia, leading to increasing interest in upcoming MSGBC projects. Recently, Germany’s Chancellor Olaf Scholz was in Senegal discussing potential gas deals between the countries. High returns on investment and demonstrated political support from regional leaders have further consolidated the region as a highly competitive investment destination. With upcoming licensing rounds across the region opening up new opportunities for upstream investment, a push for infrastructure development incentivizing mid- and downstream capital injections, and global demand making a case for MSGBC-international gas networks such as pipelines, investors should capitalize on the abundant opportunities present across the MSGBC landscape. Stepping into this picture, Eardley-Taylor serves as a top advisor and financier who will play a role in strengthening foreign investment in the region. His experience in the African energy and financial sectors make him an optimal partner for investors, and by leading discussions, participating in networking forums and engaging with potential investors at MSGBC Oil, Gas & Power 2022, Eardley-Taylor will be instrumental in securing finance for upcoming hydrocarbon projects. This year’s edition of the event centers around the theme, ‘The Future of Natural Gas: Growth using strategic investment and policy making,’ (https://bit.ly/3MVCiBh) uniting leading experts and policymakers from across the oil, gas and renewables spectrum. Organized by ECP, under the patronage of H.E. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal (https://bit.ly/3PNk1YD) – who will be delivering the keynote opening address – and in partnership with the Ministry of Petroleum and Energies, COS-Petrogaz and the African Energy Chamber, MSGBC Oil, Gas & Power 2022 serves as the only energy event that covers the entire MSGBC region from Mauritania to Guinea. Join Eardley-Taylor and other high-level speakers this September and take part in a conference that is dedicated to the MSGBC region’s energy and economic success. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Energy Capital & Power. About the MSGBC Oil, Gas & Power 2022 conference:
Under the patronage of H.E. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal, MSGBC Oil, Gas & Power will once again take place in Dakar, Senegal, with the event serving as a catalyst for investment and multi-sector development in 2022. To find out more visit MSGBCOilGasAndPower.com or contact sales@energycapitalpower.com.