Worried about the dependence on foreign supply of drugs and medicines, the National Association of Industrial Pharmacists of Nigeria (NAIP) and Pharmacists Council of Nigeria have advocated for a better business environment to encourage local investors. Besides, the stakeholders raised concerns about the proliferation of substandard products and the impact of the clampdown on members’ outlets across the country. According to foreign trade statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics, Nigeria expended N109.46bn in six months on the importation of antimalarial drugs alone in 2021. Speaking at the opening of NAIP 12th annual symposium and business summit in Kano State, Chairman, governing council of Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), Professor Ahmad Tijjani lamented the growing danger of drug insecurity, especially in the Northern part of the country. Ahmad said if the entire North including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja, would barely has less than five local manufacturers, the drug dependants in the region are naturally prone to danger in the event of any break in the supply chain. The University don said the acute inadequacy is even worst in the Northeast as the entire states in the geopolitical zone cannot point at a single local manufacturer, despite the prevailing humanitarian crisis in the area. He stated that there is a need for spontaneous action on the part of the government to create a policy framework that will attract investment in the sector. Ahmad noted that the PCN would remain vigilant to prevent unwholesome drug supply and distribution in the country. National Chairman of NAIP, Pharm. Ken Inuegbu also highlighted the negative impact of importing over 80 percent of consumed medicines into Nigeria. He attributed the acute inadequacy of local manufacturers to an unconducive working environment. Inuegbu lamented that while the country continued to worry over the shortage of local investors and the high cost of imported drugs, the few surviving manufacturers are being shut down. He stated that NAIP was not against government policies that will sanitize the sector and called for an advocated mutual engagement and understanding between NAIP and authorities. 