In advancing its commitment to strengthening youth engagement, deepening sports development and promoting talents, Leadway, the foremost financial services provider, has entered into a sponsorship agreement with Sporting Lagos Football Club, a debutant in the Nigerian National League (NNL). The season-long sponsorship with the growing Lagos-based football club, which includes delighting the fans on match days, aligns with the company’s philosophy of contributing to individual growth, especially the youths, promoting local content, and bolstering economic advancement in its immediate community, the country, and Africa at large. Commenting on this initiative, Group Chief Marketing Officer, Leadway Holdings, Mr. Olusakin Labeodan, said that the sponsorship is in line with the brand’s corporate objective of strategically creating value by harnessing the talents and potentials of individuals through support to an organisation aimed at advancing lives and promoting economic progress. “We are delighted to partner with the Sporting Lagos FC team to change the face of sports in Nigeria. The impact and importance of sports, especially football, to the Nigerian youth is beyond the peripheral. Sports have become a platform for youth to express, engage, incubate and develop their talents. It is both an entertainment and a platform for identity and opportunity and an integral part of socio-economic advancement. It is in the light and understanding of the critical role that sports play in pivoting talents towards life-changing emancipation that is the driver and core of this sponsorship. “As the most populous country in Africa with about 65 per cent of the populace being youth, with about 13.9 million unemployed as of 2022, it is ideal that every socially responsible organisation encourages and partners with causes tilted at providing a platform for youths to unbox and unleash their talents. We are optimistic that this partnership will steer the discovery of more Nigerian superstars, encourage youth participation and bolster sports development in Nigeria. Sporting Lagos Football Club is the brainchild of Shola Akinlade, Co-Founder/CEO of Paystack, Nigeria’s leading online payment platform and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stripe. Sporting Lagos is a community effort to build something enduring that creates opportunities for millions of young Nigerians. The team currently plays in the Nigeria National League (NNL) and is seeking promotion to the first division of Nigerian professional football. Prior to this sponsorship, Leadway has been involved in supporting youth participation in several sporting activities such as lawn and table tennis, basketball, cycling and athletics, working with credible organisations such as Ikoyi Club and Cycology to mention but a few.