 Davido D’banj, Davido, CKay, Yemi Alade, Reekado Banks, and Mayorkun are among the artists from five countries who will play at the third edition of the Africa Day Concert, according to YouTube. This year’s performance will also feature artists from Sierra Leone, Tanzania, South Africa, and the Congo, according to Alex Okosi, Managing Director, YouTube EMEA. The yearly performance, according to Okosi, is a musical tribute to Africa, highlighting the lively African music performers that are generating headlines around the globe. According to the Nigerian News Agency, the performance is intended to commemorate the founding of the Organisation of African Unity on May 25, 1963, by showcasing African culture via music. The concert, he claims, brings Africans, the Diaspora, and people from all over the world together to celebrate a continent that is home to more than 1.5 billion people and is producing new forms of cultural expression. He said that YouTube as platform, YouTube has been a major conduit for linking African musicians with people all over the world. The yearly performance, according to Okosi, is a musical tribute to Africa, highlighting the lively African music performers that are generating headlines around the globe. According to the Nigerian News Agency, the performance is intended to commemorate the founding of the Organisation of African Unity on May 25, 1963, by showcasing African culture via music. The concert, he claims, brings Africans, the Diaspora, and people from all over the world together to celebrate a continent that is home to more than 1.5 billion people and is producing new forms of cultural expression. He added that, “The Africa Day Concert is an opportunity to reaffirm YouTube’s support for African artists as they showcase the vibrant sounds and culture that makes Africa truly unique. The highly anticipated concert will showcase musical performances that will be streamed to a global audience.” Drizilik, a prominent Sierra Leonean recording and performance musician, would also be performing from the West African region, according to him. Busiswa Gqulu, a South African singer-songwriter and poet, and Kamo Mpela, a singer and dancer, are also scheduled to play at the Africa Day Concert, according to Okosi. Busiswa South Africa Ckay, Nigeria Davido Nigeria Dbanj Nigeria are among the artists set to participate at the Africa Day Concert 2022.