• EFCC urges civil servants to report financial crimes Notwithstanding the fact that the newly promoted former Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, has been retired, Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi, said the former anti-graft czar would be prosecuted if he is indicted by the probe panel chaired by Justice Ayo Salami (rtd). Recall that following accusations against Magu by Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, President Muhammadu Buhari had set up an investigative panel chaired by Salami to probe him in July 2020. Following the conclusion of its assignment, the panel turned in its report in November of the same year. Answering a question on why police authorities are yet to act on recommendations of the panel but instead promoted Magu to Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police before his eventual retirement, Dingyadi said: “This is an issue that should have been addressed by the Police Service Commission (PSC), which has the responsibility to conduct promotions. They are not here. And I am aware that the PSC is directly under the Presidency. “So, I cannot speak for them. But what I know is that Magu has already retired and that is what I can tell you now. The fact that he was promoted is a matter for the PSC to, maybe, throw more light on. “I’m not aware of the position of government on the report you are talking about and I think it is still under consideration. It doesn’t mean that when he retires, the law will not catch up with him whenever he is found guilty. So, I think it’s not completely finished business.” MEANWHILE, EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, has appealed to civil servants to report all forms of economic and financial crimes taking place in their Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Bawa made the call during a two-day sensitisation programme on the Eagle Eye Application for Assistant Directors of the Federal Ministry of Finance in Abuja. This came few days after the Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed, was arrested by the EFCC in connection with alleged diversion of funds and money laundering of N80 billion. Bawa, represented by his deputy Chief of Staff, Sambo Mayana, said anti-graft agencies need a lot of information to successfully fight corruption. He noted: “The reporting of crimes to us, in the EFCC, is very important because without information, it will be difficult for us to carry out our mandate. Of course, you may go out to get information and have cases reported, but with more information, it makes it a lot easier and it makes prevention even better.” 