Experts and stakeholders in Nigeria’s payment industry have called for concerted efforts to mitigate the growing menace of digital fraud.  He said there should be digital payment risk insurance in Nigeria as seen in the USA, adding that online safety law is also required as seen in the United Kingdom online safety bill (s.36), which imposes a duty of care to offer protection where criminals impersonate to steal people’s personal data or break into bank accounts.
  
He said there is a need to place and enforce the legal burden on anyone carrying on business using Internet-enabled platforms to take responsibility for the safety of customers making digital payments. “Adequate punishment for cybercrime and effective implementation. Digital Infrastructure needs to be robust. Online policing /monitoring of financial transactions and international cooperation are needed,” he stressed.
  
Speaking on the topic, ‘Contactless as the future of Payment in Africa,’ Country Manager of Visa Nigeria, Andrew Uaboi, said that contactless payment is the next frontier in the Nigerian Fintech and payment ecosystem.
  
Contactless payment is a means of payment that does not require cash or even swiping a card. It requires tapping or holding the contactless card or smartphone near a compatible card reader while checking out.
  
According to him, the innovation will enable the growth of small businesses and also assist individual businesses to thrive.  Uaboi further explained that Visa is working with the Nigerian government, Central bank and other partners to build a framework for which contactless will come in and thrive in Nigeria.
  
In a separate remark, the Managing Director of Interswitch, Hakeem Lawal, said that while support from overseas is important for payment penetration in Africa, the development of Africa’s payment system is largely in the hands of Africans via participation, policies and tailor-made solutions to address the needs. He said it was evident in the penetration of Mobile Money in Sub-Saharan Africa and the widespread of online real-time funds transfers in Nigeria. 