Debate over whether trial within trial in criminal adjudication should be abolished to hasten procedures as some are frantically advocating has continued to resonate among experts. While some argue for the abolition of the practice, others believe it could be modified within the appropriate legal framework. To abolish it completely, they argued that it might amount to miscarriage of justice. When a criminal charge is filed against a defendant and the trial begins, the prosecution usually attempts to tender a statement made by the defendant while in custody. The defence team could raise an objection, claiming that the statement was not obtained voluntarily from the defendant. The consequence is that the judge would order a trial within trial to determine whether or not the defendant was forced to make the statement. Under this circumstance, new sets of witnesses are required to give evidence, while the main trial is put on hold. Legal experts are kicking against this practice, arguing that it is one of the delayed tactics regularly adopted by most defence teams to either delay trial or frustrate it ultimately. According to them, the practice contributes to unending trials at a time efforts are being made to speed up criminal justice administration. It is a common occurrence in most criminal proceedings, but legal experts believe it should be stopped. However, considering that some security agencies, especially the police are notorious in using extra-legal means to obtain confessions, some argue that a balance needs to be established to ascertain the veracity of such statements before the court could rely on them to secure convictions. Those that are in support of the abolition often said that a trial within trial is a complete trial on its own, during which the main case is put on hold, and parties are called upon to prove whether a statement was voluntarily obtained.
 
They are of the view that there has been a blind and slavish adherence to the practice even though fundamental rights to personal liberty under Section 35 (2) of the 1999 Constitution, has already provided that any statement made by a person upon lawful arrest must be voluntary. To them, the innovative Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, which is designed to achieve speedy dispensation of justice, may be hampered by the retention of the practice.
 
Those opposed to the practice said the Evidence Act 2011 and the ACJA did not provide that a retrial must be conducted to determine the voluntariness of a statement.
 
Other schools of thought agreed that though the system is outdated, necessary steps must be taken to ensure that what it is meant to achieve is not defeated, if at the end of the day it is abolished.  The practice also places a financial burden on parties and wastes judicial time. But some adherents of the system insist that solution to the speedy justice administration does not lie in the abolition of trial within trial until several ancient practices are jettisoned. They believe that the procedure can be reformed instead. For instance, some of the old practices including writing of court proceedings by hand.  “Trial within trial is a full blown trial within the substantive criminal adjudication. It allows a trial judge to form his opinions about witnesses and evidences of both the prosecution and accused persons. Trial within trial possesses all the ingredients of a full trial.
 
“Trial within trial arises from a situation where the defence counsel raises an objection, claiming that the statement from the accused was not obtained voluntarily. “To realise whether or not the witness’ statement was made voluntarily or by force, the judge orders a trial within trial. In this situation, a new set of witnesses may be required to give evidence while the main trial is put on hold.
 
“Considering the provision of Section 35(2) of the 1999 Constitution, voluntariness of a statement by a suspect upon his arrest must be voluntary.  “As we all know, justice is for both the accused person and the prosecution. Before the advent of ACJA, the situation made some cases progress to the appellate courts just to delay or frustrate the main case.
 
“Another demerit of trial within trial to the court and parties in a criminal case is that it ‘unduly exposes’ whatever evidence before the court to unnecessary ‘clinical’ x-ray. 
 
“In other words, it makes repetition of presenting evidence(s), which probably must have been tendered before the court. In this manner and in some circumstances, it creates hole of doubts in the mind of the court. “That is, it somehow creates a psychological problem for the court on the admissibility of the same evidence it would be faced with during the main trial. “It also promotes the denial of justice to some extent and encourages delay. And justice delayed is justice denied to the victim of the crime. In addition, it increases the cost of procuring justice in our courts,” he submitted.
 
For a lawyer and human rights crusader Mr. Kabir Akingbolu, trial within trial serves as a litmus test to remove the chaff from the corn in criminal trials or proceedings. 