Download logo A new report co-authored by the African Development Bank (www.AfDB.org) and the Global  Green Growth Institute, has found evidence of growing political commitment to green growth in Africa.  The Africa Green Growth Readiness Assessment Report was launched on Wednesday during a side-event at the 15th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP15) of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, being held in Abidjan from 9 to 20 May. The study focused on an in-depth analysis in seven countries, namely Gabon, Kenya, Morocco, Mozambique, Rwanda, Senegal, and Tunisia. The findings are based on nine strategic and operational dimensions, including political commitment, policy and planning, and financing & budgeting. The authors define green growth as “the means to promote and maximize opportunities for sustainable economic development through building resilience and managing resources efficiently…” Al-Hamndou Dorsouma, Officer-in-Charge for Climate Change and Green Growth at the African Development Bank, said: “This report is expected to stimulate valuable dialogue and debate about ways to advance climate action and green growth in Africa. For the Bank, investing in green growth requires both policy interventions and adequate financing, especially that green growth investments require significant upfront financing to harness the innovative environmental solutions and clean technologies. This includes building resilient and low-carbon economies, smart and sustainable cities, greening industrialization, and building climate-resilient infrastructure.” Dr Malle Fofana, Director and Head of Programs for Africa at the Global Green Growth Institute, said: “Data-driven decision making is fundamental, especially associated to climate change-related issues. This report gave a large spectrum of opportunities and practical recommendations that will help African leaders to play a critical role in supporting a green growth models. The Global Green Growth Institute, as an intergovernmental organization, is dedicated to supporting and promoting strong, inclusive and sustainable economic growth in developing countries and emerging economies.” The assessment found evidence that African leaders are actively championing the UN Sustainable Development Goals and simultaneously implementing the nationally determined contributions, a component of the Paris climate treaty. In addition, Kenya, Morocco and Tunisia have enshrined the fundamentals of green growth, including the right to a clean and safe environment and citizens’ right to consultation, in their constitutions. The governments of Rwanda, Kenya, Morocco, Senegal and Mozambique have adopted green growth and climate-resilient economic strategies. On the other end of the spectrum, the assessment found that the remaining indicators left the most room for improvement, namely: sectoral, legal & regulatory, financing & budget, research & development & innovation, human resources & capacity, and monitoring & reporting. Read the full Africa Green Growth Readiness Assessment Report here (https://bit.ly/3FIuDDz). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Contact:
Gershwin Wanneburg
Communication and External Relations Department
E-mail: media@afdb.org About the African Development Bank Group:
The African Development Bank Group is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 41 African countries with an external office in Japan, the Bank contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www.AfDB.org