For defiling a nine-year-old schoolgirl in a barrack, a Lagos Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court, yesterday, sentenced a dismissed police officer, Mohammed Alidu, to life imprisonment.
   
The trial judge, Abiola Soladoye,  in her judgment, sentenced Alidu to life imprisonment without an option of fine for guilty for the charge brought by the state government.
    
The judge held that the state proved the case of defilement beyond reasonable doubt against the dismissed police officer.
  
The court held that Alidu was a disgrace to the police, because he failed to uphold law and order and went about frolicking with an underage girl.  She noted that the evidence of the survivor is the most credible evidence in identifying the perpetrator.
  
“The vivid and oral testimony of the survivor satisfies the court that prosecution has proved every inch of the ingredients. He is a disgrace to the entire Police because he failed to uphold law and order as he went on a frolic of his own by engaging in a bizarre and irresponsible behaviour turning the barracks into a sex den.
 
“It is most chilling. The defendant is hereby sentenced to life imprisonment without the option of fine. He should have his name entered in the Sex Offenders’ Register of the Lagos State Government.”
 
During the trial, the state had called four witnesses to testify against the defendant.
   
The prosecution team, Mr. Olusola Soneye, Mrs. Olufunke Adegoke and Ms, Abimbola Abolade told the court that Alidu committed the offence on June 29, 2018 at  Makinde Police Barracks Road, Mafoluku, Oshodi.
    
The prosecution said that Alidu grabbed the survivor into a wooden house on her way to school and defiled her.
   
They submitted that the defendant was apprehended after the survivor reported the case at the police station.
 
The prosecutors said the defendant confessed to defiling the survivor, blaming it on the devil, but later denied it as an afterthought.
  
They said the offence contravened Sections 137 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. 