 Nigeria team’s members compete in the women’s Team Sprint qualifying during the UCI Track Cycling World Championships at Jean-Stablinski velodrome in Roubaix, northern France, on October 20, 2021. (Photo by FRANCOIS LO PRESTI / AFP) Did your friend lose a lot of weight by jogging every day, and you were inspired to do this too? Was it your other friend who flaunted her toned legs by cycling every day, and you want to do the same? Jogging and cycling are two popular exercises that people enjoy. So, which is more effective in terms of weight loss? Let us find out. Burning calories is often determined by its intensity and duration. Because running burns slightly more calories per hour than riding, it may help you lose weight more quickly. According to a research by the American College of Sports Medicine, running burns about 566 to 839 calories per hour, whereas cycling at a vigorous speed burns 498 to 738 calories per hour. Another trigger to the number of calories you burn is determined by some factors such as age, weight, gender, and other factors. Again, cycling can aid in the development of lower-body muscle. Running will not make you bulky, but it will help you build stronger, toned muscles. Bike pedaling is resistance training that strengthens leg muscles. The muscles in your upper body are also involved, although they aren’t nearly as active as those in your lower body. Running engages all of the muscles at the same time, but not in such a way that mass is gained. However, the impact of striking the ground helps strengthen your muscles and bones. Are you over weight? If so and with a history of heart attacks, knee discomfort, or high blood pressure, experts suggest that the startup to the weight loss journey should begin with cycling. Running is a high-impact workout that puts a lot of stress on your joints, therefore the risk of overuse injuries is higher than cycling. Approximately 60% of runners will have an injury that precludes them from running at some point. The main hazardous concern about cycling is getting hit by a car or falling off the bike. It’s crucial to understand how to ride a bike safely if you’re a novice. If you have knee or back problems, other injuries, or chronic health disorders, it is best not to even cycle. Running or cycling can help you lose weight depending on how you do it and how you merge it with a healthy diet and other habits. Running burns more calories on average and may help you lose weight faster than bike. Cycling, on the other hand, is easier on the joints, allowing you to exercise for longer and burn more calories overall. Running was linked to weight loss in a study, and indoor cycling was recommended to help people lose weight in another research review when accompanied with appropriate eating habits. It is best to discover something that you enjoy and can accomplish on a regular basis. It is encouraged that you test both and evaluate which one best suits you. Cycling and running are both excellent ways to stay active and healthy. Choose the activity that best fits your health and lifestyle, or combine the two for a more diversified workout. Both cycling and running are not superior to the other. Choose the option that best matches your lifestyle to ensure that you will enjoy and keep to it. You can even flip between the two activities to get the most out of each and avoid boredom. Working with a personal trainer might help you reach specific goals like weight loss or muscular toning.