The performance of students at the first round of the ongoing Professional Golfers Association (PGA) of Nigeria qualifying school has shown that the country has a bright future in golf, the sport’s governing body has said. Applauding the students participating in the ongoing Qualifying School examination for ladies in Yenagoa, Beyelsa State, PGA of Nigeria’s Director of Tournaments, Johnbull Dangofa, said the exercise was going according to the association’s plan adding, “The students have impressed us.” The playing ability and classroom work, which officially teed off on Tuesday, saw the students showing their individual skills and brilliance, which are the core elements needed to boost qualification into the professional cadre. In the first round, Stella Kadiri played 77 gross; Bola Mustapha 79 gross and Selena James 80 gross. “The performance, so far, is encouraging… the students have to sustain the tempo, improve on what they have done in the first round, because we’re not going to bend the rules to favour anybody. It has to be in line with the international standard and as required,” he said. Dangofa said the exercise is another way of creating employment for the women folk in the society and also breaking gender barriers and attracting more women to the game. “It is not going to be all about playing golf physically, many of them will graduate to become golf administrators and coaches; they will help in grooming and bringing in more women into the sport in Nigeria. Invariably, they are going to be role models,” he said. Corroborating the Tournament Director, PGA of Nigeria’s Director of Operations, Uchenna Ezebuiro, said: “The PGA of Nigeria has taken a bold step in improving on professional golfing in Nigeria – this is the first time a qualifying examination is being organised for women in Nigeria. “It’s another way of telling the governing body of golf that we’re ready in terms of women inclusiveness in the game; interestingly, the performance at the end of first round was very impressive and PGA Nigeria is proud of the students; but they should spice it up in the remaining two days to achieve their goals,” he concluded. Despite the excellent performance of the students, the officials, however, maintained that only the best 10 would be accepted, saying the rules would not be compromised. Seventeen students are participating in the Qualifying School. The playing ability and classroom work exercise was expected to end yesterday, while an amateur event will wrap off the event today. 