Minority leader of the House of Representatives, Mr. Ndudi Elumelu, representing Aniocha/Oshimili Federal Constituency, yesterday, emerged  the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for 2023 general elections, after scoring 80 delegates’ votes to defeat his closest opponent, Mrs. Pat Ajudua, who polled 35 votes while the third contestant, Kanyinebi Banye Muoboso, got 17 votes at primary election held in Asaba, Delta State. 144 delegates from the four councils of the constituency including Aniocha North and South and Oshimili North and South were accredited, out of which 132 voted. At Ika Federal Constituency, the incumbent member, Mr. Victor Nwokolo, also won his return ticket as PDP standard-bearer, while third-term member representing Ndokwa/Ukwuani Federal Constituency, Mr. Ossai N. Ossai, failed. Ossai scored 24 votes while Mr. Nnamdi Ezechi polled 44 delegates votes to win the ticket to stand for the general elections
Ezechi is a commissioner representing Ndokwa at the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC). In Isoko Federal constituency, Mr. Jonathan Kukodiko, scored 33 votes to defeat Mr. Askia Ogieh who pulled 21 in the delegates votes. MEANWHILE, there was shooting by gunmen at  the venue of Delta State House Of Assembly primary election held at the Anglican Girls Grammar School, Ozoro, in Isoko North Council of the State, yesterday. Although, the election had ended peacefully with the state legal adviser of the party, Bernard Odion winning the election with 23 votes, beating the incumbent, Jude Ogbimi, who polled one vote, the gunmen, numbering over 10, stormed the area. The Guardian learnt that they stormed the venue in three Toyota Sienna mini vans shortly after the primary election results had been declared and delegates and aspirants left the venue. They subsequently began to shoot indiscriminately into the air as party members, supporters and security personnel scampered to safety. The immediate past council chairman, Emmanuel Egbabor, who had eight votes clinched the second position.