Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, declared he has a “mad passion” to see a better Nigeria. He stated this when he played host to a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, at his residence in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He said Nigeria requires a leader who has passion, innovation and vision: someone who possesses adequate knowledge about the challenges confronting the country. He added: “When you (Hayatu-Deen) said you are involved in this with a passion, I was telling some people this morning that passion means madness, that you are mad about Nigeria. I am and I have no apologies for that because I have no other country I can call my own and I have no other country I can go to and say, ‘yes, I have come to live here’. “Passion means being mad about Nigeria, having a touch of madness. And I look at you (Hayatu-Deen) and say, ‘yes, you are mad about Nigeria too’.” MEANWHILE, Professor of Political Economy, Pat Utomi, has identified solution to the current economic woes plaguing the nation. Speaking on Wednesday at the maiden international conference on Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Business Management, organised by the University of Lagos Business School (ULBS), Utomi, explained the need for Nigeria to invest massively in technology and education of her youths. He noted, under the theme of the event, ‘Adapting to Business Landscape in Disruptive Times’, that the country is not doing enough in giving voices to the youth where they can play a transforming role in the technology-driven future.	  
He said: “The key driver of the new economy is knowledge. We must massively invest in educating our youths, and not in conventional ways. We need coding schools. We need software engineering programmes and all of those, because the Internet of Things will affect everything. It is our readiness for that. “We are at the juncture in human history where technology and the Internet of Things will change the way things are done before. Look at what Fintech companies are doing to banks, completely disruptive business. These applications will affect even agriculture and things we don’t even see as technology related. “Our future depends very much on how we see these getting into our culture. We must stop talking out our young people because they are our future; they are generally smart and we are not giving them the opportunities we should give them.” 