 Johnny Depp | Image: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images One of Johnny Depp’s security guards has testified to seeing Amber Heard punch the actor in the face while they were married. On Monday, the guard Travis McGivern gave his testimony via video link during Depp’s ongoing defamation trial against Heard. McGivern elaborated on arguments he had overheard between the former couple after they returned home in March 2015 from Australia, where the infamous severed finger incident happened. Still, under Depp’s employment, McGivern recalled hearing a “relatively peaceful conversation” that devolved into a “louder” and “more volatile” one. He revealed that Heard threw a Red Bull can at Depp during the incident, leading McGivern to stand near Depp as the “verbal onslaught continued from both of them.” “Mr Depp was giving as good as he got at that point,” said McGivern. “He was angry and agitated.” The security guard also noted that he had blocked Heard’s purse from hitting Depp and that the actress “tried to spit on” Depp amid the “verbal vitriol from both of them.” An “upset” Depp then “rearranged” Heard’s closet, he said, by causing disarray and throwing some of her stuff down a staircase. When Heard and her sister Whitney returned to the penthouse, she and Depp were both “agitated,” McGivern continued. “Out of the corner of my eye, I saw a fist and an arm come across my right shoulder, and I heard and saw a closed fist contact Mr Depp in the left side of his face. That was Ms Heard’s fist.” Revealing the actor’s reaction, he said, “the initial look on his face kind of mirrored mine, kind of a look of shock. Like, ‘What just happened? Where did that come from?’ At that point, I wasn’t gonna let Mr Depp get hit anymore, so I moved him down the last flight of stairs to the lower level and told him, ‘We are leaving.’ It wasn’t up to him anymore. Just for his safety.” He said he saw a “nice little shiner” on Depp’s face afterwards that was “swollen and red” but not “black and blue yet.” While being cross-examined, Heard’s attorney asked the guard if Depp was “reaching for Amber’s hair while he was trying to hit her” in that incident. McGivern, however, answered that the attorney’s description of the incident was “not correct.” The lawyer also asked if it was true that Heard only punched Depp after he shoved her sister that day which McGivern denied. Depp is suing his ex-wife for defamation over an article she wrote for The Washington Post about becoming “a public figure representing domestic abuse.”