Execpt the southern part of the country puts its acts together and works as a team to secure the presidency, there are strong indications that scripts being worked out by some interest groups in the northern region may ensure that the presidential candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), emerge from the region.  The north has, however, cleverly been taking advantage of the division between the Igbo and Yoruba who are clamouring to produce Buhari’s successor, to attempt to remain in power for another four or eight years after the incumbent president.
 
Despite the southern agitation to take power, the leadership of both the PDP and APC, currently being controlled by northerners, appear unperturbed. While PDP has openly declared it will throw its presidential race open, APC is still playing the ostrich, with indications it may also follow in PDP’s footsteps.  Others include Akwa Ibom Governor, Emmanuel Udom, ex-Ekiti state Governor, Ayodele Fayose, boardroom guru, Sam Ohunabunwa, former Managing Director of Nigerian International Bank (NIB), Mohammed Hayatudeen, Ovation Magazine publisher, Dele Momodu, Olivia Tarela, who is the only female among them, Charles Okwudili, Chikwendu Kalu and Cosmos Ndukwe. In the APC, the contestants who submitted their nomination form before the closing date and will feature in the primaries billed for Eagles Square, Abuja, on May 29 are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, former Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonanya Onu, Ebonyi state Governor, David Umahi, former Minister of State, Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajuba, and Kogi state Governor, Yahaya Bello. Other APC aspirants are ex-Governor of Akwa Ibom, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, popular preacher, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Ekiti state Governor, Kayode Fayemi, former Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, Jigawa state Governor, Abubakar Badaru, former Zamfara State Governor, Sen. Ahmed Sani Yerima, Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, and former Speaker, Dimeji Bankole, among others.
 
In the PDP, from the beginning of the race, it has been clear the opposition planned to go to the north in search of a candidate. That is why from the word go, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, and Bauchi state Governor, Bala Mohammed were the leading candidates. The race has since last week narrowed to three aspirants: Saraki, Atiku, and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state. However, there are indications that the race may have narrowed down to only two people with one of them being the favoured choice of the top leaders of the party, a significant section of the governors, and other super delegates. The calculation in the PDP is that using the mathematical principle of elimination and substitution, the race should continue to narrow down until it will get to the convention day. Now, the two aspirants who are having serious consideration as possible flag bearers are Saraki and Wike. It is believed that the elimination process has got to a semi-final stage where one aspirant from each of the two sections of the country, north, and south, is now being considered.
 
Atiku was eliminated on account of age, agility, and past position on party issues. At age 75, he is said to have been too old to face the rigour of the job and provide the presence that the critical job of salvaging the nation requires. Also, it is believed that his health is suspect. The stakeholders also believe that he has had his chance and that his best time was in 2019 when he was handed the ticket on a platter of gold based on the surreptitious intervention of the elders.
  
His failure to win and his lacklustre attitude to pursuing the litigation challenging the victory of the incumbent has also become a piece of baggage for him. Many party elders and delegates are still unhappy at the way he abandoned the party after the loss of the 2019 election.  It is believed in political circles that Ahmed Lawan is the joker the APC has prepared in case PDP picks a presidential aspirant from the North. He is said to enjoy the support of the National Assembly caucuses, the Presidency, and other stakeholders.
 
Many believe Lawan is the establishment candidate. He was said to have been propped up after a secret opinion poll sponsored by some top elements in Aso Rock indicated that Saraki will likely win the PDP presidential primaries and go ahead to defeat any candidate from the South. The apparatchiks who are privy to the results of the opinion polls and the attached analysis then decided to move fast and create an opportunity to stage a return leg of the battle for the Senate Presidency in 2015. It was said that the nation was denied the opportunity of seeing both men square up against each other when Saraki emerged because Lawan and his sponsors out-schemed themselves by being absent from the venue of voting. It was also said that the game is now a draw with Saraki having been forced out of the return leg by the forces that ensured he did not get re-elected in his constituency, to forestall his standing against Lawan in 2019 race for the presidency.
 
The 2023 presidential election maybe another race between the two gladiators, both former Senate Presidents, the incumbent, and his predecessor, to slug it out for a higher post. This time, the electorate will not be just 109 senators; they will be over 80 million registered voters. However, before that return match, both men must scale the hurdle of the presidential primaries next weekend in Abuja. 