League Management Company’s (LMC) quest to raise the profile of Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) got a boost, yesterday, when Bitnob, a financial services company anchored on bitcoin network, agreed on a three-year sponsorship deal, which makes it the Elite sponsor of the league. At the unveiling of the partnership in Lagos, Bitnob CEO, Bernard Parah, said the deal is a vehicle to reach people, who need their solutions in business and wealth creation and at the same time provide the company opportunity to contribute to the development of the domestic league, which he described as a national asset. Parah added: “This partnership takes us to the people that need our solutions and helps us work with the NPFL to develop our league for more possibilities. Bitcoin, just like football, is about hope, oneness and freedom, and at Bitnob, we are excited to be making this happen to inspire hope and showcase possibilities in our own league. If we don’t believe in what is ours, then who will?” Also speaking at the event, League Management Company (LMC) Chairman, Shehu Dikko, described the partnership as a marriage of football and technology, which is critical to the next phase of global football. He added: “We are excited to see young minds choosing to invest in the growth and development of our domestic league. Football is a major passion point in the country and we believe that the marriage of football and technology is critical to the next phase of the game in our nation.” Dikko disclosed that Bitnob has been professional in its dealings with the LMC, adding, “although we have a three-year deal, which officially starts from the 2022/23 season, Bitnob started implementing it immediately.” He said the LMC decided to unbundle the NPFL brand such that it could accommodate multiple sponsors and different brands. “This is different from the former situation where we had one title sponsor to the league,” Dikko said. Earlier LMC CEO, Davidson Owumi, said the deal is one in the series of efforts to reposition the NPFL. “We are trying our best to bring back our league to be the backbone of our football. “The strength of the country’s football is measured by the growth of its league and we hope that with Bitnob’s support, we can build the league of our dream,” Owumi said. Among dignitaries at the event were president of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick, LMC’s Chief Operating Officer, Salihu Abubakar, Chairman of NPFL Club Owners Association, Danladi Isaac and LMC’s Head, Special Projects, Harry Iwuala. In the Bitnob team were Adenale Osideinde (COO), Head, Customer Experience, Isioma Onyegikei, Abubakar Nur Khalil of Recursive Capital, an investor in Bitnob. 