Ex-COAS woos gov, APC for ex-minister All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Rotimi Amaechi, has urged the party’s delegates from Borno State to vote with conscience and fear of God during the primary elections. The 27 local councils of Borno will produce 341 delegates for the APC primary election holding in few days to come. Addressing the delegates, yesterday, in Maiduguri, Amaechi disclosed: “The magic I will do is to talk to your conscience,” adding that any man who does not have a conscience is not worthy to live. According to him, it is that conscience that makes one not to go against God, noting that anyone that goes against God will go to hell. The former transport minister explained: “Conscience makes you to remember somebody, who has done well for the people. This is the only way to pay back,” urging Governor Babagana Zulum to tell the delegates to vote for him. The presidential aspirant, who had been speaker and governor for eight years each and minister for seven years, is optimistic that he will be president at 58. For Zulum, the country is always in a trouble because the leaders at the national and state levels abandoned the poor, who constitute the majority of the electorate. He prayed for a good candidate that would deliver the dividends of democracy to the people of Borno and the country at large.
MEANWHILE, former Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai (rtd), has urged Zulum and the delegates to vote for Amaechi as the party’s presidential flagbearer for the 2023 elections. Buratai, who is Nigeria’s Ambassador to Benin Republic, described Amaechi as one citizen that can change things for good in the country, if given opportunity to serve as president. Speaking at a consultative meeting between Amaechi, Zulum, APC leaders and delegates in Maiduguri, Borno State, yesterday, Buratai narrated how Amaechi, as Rivers governor, succeeded in curbing militancy, kidnapping and others forms of criminality and restored sanity to the state within few months of assuming office. The former COAS, who was then Brigade Commander of the Nigerian Army in Rivers, said he saw in Amaechi the resilience and determination to do things right, urging the governor and delegates to give him all their votes and see for themselves the change that would occur when he eventually becomes president. He said: “Your Excellency, we will not share any vote. Give all your votes to Amaechi, and I will tell you why. Here with us is the man of the moment, who is ready to serve, and has shown determination in his exploits and his experience over the years, as speaker, governor and minister. He has led other governors twice. He has also led his colleagues in parliament as Chairman, Conference of Speakers twice.”