Ahead of the national convention of the All Progressive Congress (APC), a deep division has emerged among members of the National Working Committee (NWC) over the mode of selecting the party’s presidential flagbearer. This came to the fore after a member of the NWC and former Director General of the Progressive Governor’s Forum (PGF), Dr Salihu Lukman, accused the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, of plotting to impose the presidential flagbearer under the guise of consulting with President Muhammadu Buhari on the matter. In a leaked letter dated May 27 addressed to Senator Adamu, Lukman faulted s decision Adamu to consult with Buhari before arriving at the decision to pick the party’s presidential flagbearer. Lukman, who faulted the secrecy surrounding the screening of presidential aspirant, described the move as not only antithetical to democratic norms but alien to the party’s constitution. Lukman claimed that the current NWC is gradually snowballing into what used to be the case under Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Mai Mala Buni era where decisions taken are allowed to lay bare and, in some instances, changed without necessarily taking needed steps to carry members along. He noted: “For instance, although the National Convention to elect the party’s presidential candidate is scheduled for May 29 and 30, less than 48 hours, we are yet to have a Convention Committee in place. “In fact, the presidential aspirants are yet to be screened. The official explanation is that you are awaiting for final consultation with President Buhari. At the risk of sounding agitated, this is unfair to Buhari, because to the best of my understanding, it is an attempt to use the president’s name to give excuses for failure, if it happens, which should not be the case. “As NWC and as our leader being the National Chairman, I want to appeal to you on the need for new initiatives in managing the party. At the rate we are going, we are walking back to the old spot of over centralised implementation of party decisions around the National Chairman. “Increasingly, critical challenges of managing important tasks such as organising National Convention to produce Presidential Candidate of the party is being handled informally. This should not be so, and everything must be done to correct that. “Finally, the issue of conditions of party leaders, including the NWC members is completely left unattended. The official excuse is that you requested a budget. Consequently, two months now in office, no decision has been taken to pay members of the NWC. “The specific details of entitlements of NWC members are being reduced to speculations. This is very unhealthy and should be corrected. Partly, this is giving legitimacy for many unethical practices, which would appear to be influencing the conducts of some members of the NWC. “Your Excellency, I wanted to meet you to discuss these matters. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult, and I feel very strongly about these matters. It is my hope that you will be able to prioritise developing good relationships with individual members of the NWC to accommodate our individual perspectives in handling the task of rebuilding our party. “I am confident that Your Excellency will be able to provide the needed leadership to rebuild our party, APC.”