Footwear has, undeniably, become one of the basic needs for every human. As a result of the necessity attached to it across the world, smart producers and sellers of sneakers continue to stock top quality in order to retain customer patronage. One of such individuals is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Flykicks, Osang Usie Otukpa. Otukpa is that innovative entrepreneur, who channelled his passion for sneakers into a business venture. He said that growing up, it was difficult getting original pairs of sneakers. He said: “Growing up, I always had an intense love for sneakers and street-wear style. It had always been difficult to get original pairs of sneakers, as there were no vendors or walk-in stores. I relied on my aunts or friends abroad to bring me some pairs when they visited. “So sometime last year, I was in Dubai and I said to myself, why not open up a sneaker store back home in Lagos, to have sneaker aficionados like me just walk in and shop for the sneakers they love. “Other than wait on personal shoppers to take the whole time to deliver or shop online, you can wear the sneaker to see how it really fits. Well, that thought birthed Flykicks, and today, it’s a brand in Nigerians love. I am happy we were able to solve a problem were experiencing. I am glad we are filling that vacuum.” On the challenges he encounters running the business, he said: “Well, mostly, the challenges range from restocking the sneakers, because I have to first source all the various sizes, trying hard to win raffles, source reseller’s overseas, and shipping them to Nigeria. Sometimes, it can be pretty stressful and time-consuming. But, we don’t allow that deter us. We keep moving”. The fashionable businessman also stated that he got patronage from some of the biggest celebrities in Nigeria. “Celebrities love to stay true to their feet so they always shop with us at flykicks. The likes of Rema, Zlatan, Backroad Gee, Vector, Mayorkun, Dremo, Buju, Big Brother Naija’s Neo, Dorathy, Poco Lee and others have been patronising us. Excellent service delivery is why they patronise us,” he concluded.