• Skill acquisition, imperative for job creation
• 10,000 middle, high-level managers lost to western economies When Sunday Oyelami completed his secondary school education in 2010, he got a job at a pure water factory. He was so fascinated by the operating system of the factory that he decided to get technical skills so that he could someday run his own factory. “The machine’s programmed system brought about my desire to acquire technical skills and become a sole-proprietor,” Oyelami recalls. Determined to make this dream a reality, Oyelami enrolled at Government Technical College, Agidingbi, to study Computer Craft. In his second year at the college, the Samsung Engineering Academy was commissioned. Niger State Technical College, Minna  In another instance, Victor Johnson, one of the many technicians in the auto part market along Acme Road, Ogba, repairs vehicle stereos. A customer had brought the stereo of his Toyota Camry to him for repairs a day earlier.  Johnson, who has been practising for six years, is one of the many graduates produced by the country’s technical colleges. However, he is one of many Nigerian technicians whose expertise has become outdated. Practical session in a technical school  The increasing dearth of competent technicians in different fields in the light of the advancement in technology is becoming a worrisome issue. Practical session for students of a Lagos technical school  In Nigeria, training of technical personnel has witnessed many challenges, ranging from endless tampering with policies, a curriculum that has little or no relationship with workplace and social needs, embezzlement of funds meant for education development purposes, lack of teacher motivation, inadequate facilities, inadequate funding, brain drain, poor staff training, bribery and corruption. State of technical schools
ACROSS the states, stories of the colleges are the same, obsolete facilities, inadequate manpower and a lack of conducive environment for learning. For instance, at Government Technical College, Patigi, Kwara State, old students lamented the sorry state of the school and appealed to the government to resuscitate it alongside others, to ensure technological advancement.
 
President of the old students association, Ottan Abdulmunimi Shuaibu, decried the negligence of the technical college, saying the school currently has less than 100 students.
   
The group said that technical education remained the only solution to the technological advancement of any nation, which is the bedrock of every economy.  “This school was established in 1964 and the equipment supplied at that time is what we still have in the school. Of course, they no longer work but we simply describe how they work and hope our students would know how to operate them when they see real ones,” a teacher said.  All talk but no funding
Successive governments have failed to adequately fund education. In the 2022 budget, for instance, a paltry N392m was earmarked as a takeoff grant for six federal science and technical colleges.  Experts observed that due to inadequate funding, normal workshop practice, which forms 60 per cent the standard of technical college curriculum, set by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE)], is fast disappearing.
  
Ideally, the workshop, there is meant to be equipped for acquiring skills, consumable materials purchased and distributed for practice; physical facilities arranged and given occupational direction so that acceptable work habits and procedures are successfully executed.
   
While lamenting the poor state of facilities in technical schools, experts noted that there is no planned means of maintenance of the already broken down equipment or means of purchasing new ones. “This pathetic situation needs to be reverted to meet the goals of technical education as enshrined in the National Policy on Education (Federal Government of Nigeria, 2004).” According to the policy, the goals shall be to provide trained manpower in the applied sciences, technology and business, particularly at the craft (equivalent of high schools), advanced craft and technical levels; provide technical knowledge and vocational skills, as well as give training and impart necessary skills to individuals to make them self reliant.
  
Way Forward 
LIKE Oyelami, hundreds of students have benefitted from the revamped technical education in Lagos state. However, it has the potential to benefit hundreds more. Victor, a Tech 3 (final year) student of electrical engineering at the Government Technical College, Ikotun, is fortunate to have well-equipped facilities at his disposal. The same can, however, not be said for other students whose areas of specialisation lack state of art facilities in their various colleges.
 
A Principal of one of the technical colleges, Bolaji Omosanya, said Nigeria would come back to develop technical education when its leaders realise that the economy is going nowhere without correcting the technical skills deficit.
   
“It is unheard of that most of what we do as technical colleges are now theoretical. What are we doing if we don’t have working machines? Ours is the soul of Nigeria’s economy, but it seems our leaders have simply forgotten that” he said.  To reposition technical college workshops for greater efficiency, Linus Hassan, a leader of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), said the private sector should be encouraged to initiate and participate in the provision of facilities, using such methods as building, operating and transfer (BOT), build-own-operate and transfer (BOOT), and rehabilitate-operate-and-transfer (ROT). Besides, he said non-governmental organisations; parent-teachers associations and community-based organisations should be tasked to contribute to technical education by providing facilities for workshops as obtained in some nations.
 
Hassan added that special intervention funds should be set aside by the government for the procurement of workshop facilities for technical colleges. He said a specific percentage of income tax generated yearly by the government should be utilised for the provision of workshop facilities to technical colleges.
 
A lecturer at Akanu Ibiam Federal Polytechnic, Uwana, Ebonyi State, Etim Uduak, said:  “We must return to the basics by re-channelling the minds of youths to technical education.” Besides, he charged state governments to drive the process by expanding technical schools or creating new ones where they are non-existent.  Sadly, even the Federal Government has continued to open new universities despite the glut of graduates in the country. Besides, existing universities are poorly funded, accounting for perennial industrial disharmony in the system. Attention ought to focus on technical education at this time with a view to creating independent citizens with a high degree of technical competence.      
 
“With an increase in population comes corresponding demand for housing, food and services. So, these skills will forever be in need, so long as we breathe. And in the event you don’t want to be on the payroll of anybody, you can monetise the skills by employing yourself. For example, a diploma holder in animal health and production can engage in the private practice of visiting farms and local markets to provide first aid treatment. There are too many farms to go around. We can say the same about a plumber, tiler, painter and others.” On his part, Thomas Akpan of the Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, said the government should make technical education a viable option in the country. “The government should ensure that more technical colleges are commissioned, while polytechnics should be more pragmatic than they are currently. The days of blue-collar jobs as the only way of getting on in life are virtually over. Independence through skills acquisition programmes should be emphasised. All state governments should buy into this policy as it is the only way of addressing unemployment in the country.”
 
Former President, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Usman Dutse, noted that technical education and technical schools, like other arms in the sector, are characterised by deplorable facilities and infrastructure, under-funding, inadequate staff, poor incentives and lack of conducive environment for learning.
 
Dutse said: “The bottom line is this; the government has failed to acknowledge the importance of technical education.  The mindset is that it is looked down on as inferior and lacks any pedigree required for a higher state of society.  “Technical schools and technological institutions require practical activities; robust and well-equipped laboratories and workshops, where these activities can take place. “To cut it short, this sector has failed to get the recognition it deserves from the government, funding is poor, infrastructure decay is common, facilities are obsolete and outdated, and enrollment is also low. Even parents are not interested in sending their wards to technical schools, 99 per cent of parents are more interested in sending their children to universities.” On his part, Prof Dele Adigun of the University of Jos said the problem with technical education is in two ways, society looks down on hands-on and technical skills, while society places much emphasis on paper qualifications. “But what makes it worse is that government itself allowed that. Look at the idea of converting polytechnics to universities. It is absolutely wrong.” The university teacher reminded me that the curricula are different and designed to serve a purpose. “So, for technical schools, we should look at Japan and Germany, study technical education in those countries and then, domesticate.  “Look at construction and engineering industries, for example, those are areas where technical schools could be very useful. Because there are things that technicians can do that engineers and others cannot do. And for a large number of youths, you must teach them skills. The only places you teach skills are polytechnics and technical colleges,” Adigun said.