• Jamaica celebrates first Africa Day
International President of the African Women Lawyers Association (AWLA), Mrs. Amanda Demechi-Asagba, has called for sustenance of unity among nations to foster cooperation and development on the continent. She gave the charge yesterday at the occasion of the 2022 Africa Day. The yearly event is to remember their hard-won liberation from European colonial powers. Demechi-Asagba said on the occasion, countries were to reflect on the struggles of past heroes, who fought for the freedom and unity of the African race.
 
She canvassed sustained cooperation and harmonious relationships to foster development on the continent. Shaping the African mobility narrative on the occasion, companies like GIG Mobility, Max.ng and Gokada dominated the mobility space and Pan-African players like Safeboda. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of GIG Mobility, Enahoro Okhae, said the struggles for liberation and development should be treasured along with intense political awareness globally. ALSO, the Caribbean island is officially celebrating the African influence on Jamaican culture for the first time, under the theme, ‘Jamaica-Africa: One Family,’ to mark this year’s Africa Day. Minister of Culture, Gender, Entertainment and Sport, Olivia Grange, said: “Africa Day is an occasion to re-ignite our ties with the continent and strengthen Jamaica-Africa relations.” This year, Jamaica’s celebration of the event focuses on Ethiopia, based on its connection with Rastafari – a religious, spiritual and cultural movement – founded in Jamaica in the 1930s. Ghana and Nigeria were a huge part of the celebration, as most of the Africans enslaved and transported to Jamaica came from these two nations, officials said. It is the yearly commemoration of the establishment of the defunct Organisation of African Unity (OAU) on May 25, 1963. The organisation was founded in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia by 32 Heads of State to unite Africans for progress of the continent.	  The OAU later transmuted into the African Union (AU) in July 2002. 