The Police yesterday arraigned three male and one female teacher of the Chrisland schools before a Magistrate’s Court, Yaba for allegedly concealing a sex tape of a student of Chrisland School Lagos. The teachers, Oladotun Sotunde, Elesho Tajudeen, Rhoda Olanipekun and Ajigboye Hammed were arraigned before Chief Magistrate Adeola Adedayo. They were arraigned on two-count charges bordering on conspiracy and attempt to pervert justice. They however pleaded not guilty to the two counts. The officer from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti, Mrs Yetunde Cardoso with Mr. Augustine Nwabuisi appeared for the prosecution. Cardoso told the court that the defendants committed the offence on April 25, at Chrisland School, in Victoria Garden City, Lagos. She said that the defendants were asked to supervise the students to Dubai for a world school games. She also the told court that the students engaged in indecent sexual acts while on the trip and a 10-year-old student made a sex tape, which the teachers conspired to conceal. The prosecution counsel further informed the court that the teachers allegedly obstructed the course of justice by hiding the indecent act of the students’ sex video, before it later went viral on social media. The offence, she said, contravenes the provisions of Section 411 and 97 (1) (3) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). The Section 97 provides seven years imprisonment for the offence of attempting to pervert justice, while Section 411 provides two years for conspiracy. Following their plea of not guilty to the charge, Magistrate Adedayo granted them bail in the sum of N300,000 each with three responsible sureties each in like sum. The Magistrate ordered that the sureties must submit copies of their Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) card and their National Identification Number (NIN).
 
She said that one of the sureties must be a land owner, but all must be residing within the jurisdiction of the court. “ The sureties  be gainfully employed with evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State Government.” Before adjourning the case to June 13 for mention, she ordered that the case file be duplicated and sent to the Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) for advice.