 Park 23 FESTAC court Hennessy, brought together the worlds of art and basketball through the revitalisation of a community basketball court in Festac Town to commemorate the introduction of the ‘In the Paint’ initiative to Nigeria. In the spirit of celebrating urban cultural values, Hennessy collaborated with renowned Nigerian graffiti and GFX artist, OsaSeven, to revitalize Park 23 basketball court in FESTAC Town. Aside from being a place where people come together to play basketball, the court is also where OsaSeven played  2 decades ago. First launched in Montreal, Canada in 2021, the “In the Paint” initiative is a one-of-a-kind offshoot of the “Hennessy x NBA” collaboration that uses basketball and art to bring the brand’s popular slogan, “Never Stop, Never Settle,” to local communities. This initiative is a part of Hennessy’s global series of artistic collaborations, which not only gives back to society but also promotes the true spirit of community. When asked about the initiative, Oluwole Awoleke, Marketing Manager, Moet Hennessy Nigeria, says, ” We’re excited to collaborate with Osa Seven. For Hennessy, it’s always been about thinking outside the lines. Hennessy is more than a cognac, and this project demonstrates that Hennessy remains the brand that fosters the true spirit of community.” The court design is easily described as a masterpiece because of the unique way it combines urban culture and the brand’s identity, each stroke a reflection of OsaSeven’s artistic prowess. The design is highly influenced by Nigeria’s diverse cultures; celebrating heritage, unending creativity, and innovation. The iconic “Bras Armé” symbol, which is synonymous with Hennessy, is an eye-catching element of the court design that is bound to create an impression in the minds of visitors. There is also an elaborate display of a  Benin Ivory mask which was also the symbol of FESTAC'77. Finally, the use of curved patterns and colors depicting heavy rain clouds before dawn lays emphasis on the resilient attitude consistently displayed by Nigerians Speaking on the design, OsaSeven said, "This artwork, which consists of bold curve patterns, colors, and the Benin Queen bronze head, represents the point where yesterday and tomorrow meet today." Without a doubt, while this court provides a place for members of the community to bond, it also sends a strong message that will inspire young people to pursue their dreams. Park 23 FESTAC court is now open to the public.