•Female Contestant Floors Ribadu, Four Others For Adamawa APC Guber Ticket
•Ogah Wins In Abia APC
•Ex-CAS, Abubakar, Wins In Bauchi The primary elections of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) across the country are pulling off drama and upsets. Imo State House of Assembly Speaker, Kennedy Ibeh, yesterday, secured the controversial third term ticket to represent Obowo Constituency on the platform of APC. The Guardian gathered that the primary ended late on Thursday after Governor Hope Uzodimma had addressed all the aspirants, urging those with criminal issues, those against zoning and those lacking the representative capacity to withdraw. The PDP senator for Imo East, Onyewuchi Ezenwa, was defeated in the senatorial primary by former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Uche Onyeagocha, who represented Owerri Federal Constituency in the green chamber. In Imo North (Okigwe) Senatorial District, Ifeanyi Araraume (Jnr) lost to Emmanuel Okewulonu on the PDP platform with 61 to 132 votes. Two House of Representatives members, Ugonna Ozuruigbo (Nkwerre/Isu/Nwangele/Njaba) and Kingsley Uju (Ohaji/Egbema/Oguta/Oru West), who recently defected from APC to PDP, also won. There was a major upset in Adamawa, where Senator Aishatu Binani, defeated the former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu; former governor, Bindow Jibrilla and three other aspirants to clinch the APC governorship ticket. Chairman of the APC Electoral Committee, Alhaji Gambo Lawan, said the female contestant got 430 votes to beat his closest rival, Ribadu, who polled 288. Jibrilla’s 103 votes left him in the third spot. With 370 votes, former Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (rtd) has clinched the Bauchi State APC governorship ticket, defeating other seven aspirants, including Senator Halliru Jika (Bauchi Central). As the immediate past Director-General, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Radda, won Katsina APC gubernatorial ticket, Senator Garba Lado won that of PDP. Former National President of Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) and Deputy President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Dr. Nasir Idris (Kaura Gwandu), has emerged APC governorship candidate in Kebbi State with 1,055 of the 1090 votes cast to beat his two opponents. In Ekiti State, former Senate Minority Leader, Biodun Olujimi, secured the PDP ticket for Ekiti South senatorial district. Olujimi emerged as the party’s consensus candidate following the withdrawal of her main challengers, including the former Deputy Governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, and former Rep, Segun Adekola, before the commencement of the exercise. Senator Bassey Otu has emerged the winner of Cross River State APC governorship primaries, defeating Senator John Enoh and Chief Chris Agara. Otu scored 811 votes, while Enoh, who had earlier announced his withdrawal, but at the last minute decision to join the race, got 84 votes. Agara polled 64. In another development, Senator Sandy Onoh (Cross River Central) won the PDP ticket with 234 votes. Former Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uche Ogah, has been declared the winner of Abia State APC governorship primary election, amid reports that the party was factionalised. He was reportedly declared the winner of the direct primary election as directed by the party National Executive Council (NEC), which took place in the 184 wards in 17 local councils of the state by the Returning Officer (RO), Perfect Okorie, yesterday, in Umuahia. Out of the 195,801 votes cast, the oil magnate polled 141,952 to beat his closest rival, Paul Ikonne, who got 27,054. Others who participated in the direct primary election include Ikechi Emenike, who polled 9,446, Emeka Atuma with 7,429 and Obinna Oriaku with 5,553. Alex Otti, though left the party, reportedly polled 2,414 and Daniel Eke got 1,953. According to Okorie, the outcome of the election, which was officially monitored by INEC, is a reflection of the total will of the people of Abia. On Thursday, Emenike announced the winner of an indirect primary election in Umuahia. However, Ogah and other aspirants kicked against the indirect primary adopted by the Emenike faction, stating that it contravened the directive of APC national leadership. They insisted that Abia, Benue and Osun were listed to adopt the direct primary as a way of enhancing inclusion. 