President Muhammadu Buhari has urged doctors and other health professionals to devise practicable solutions for the challenges bedeviling Nigeria’s health care system. The President made the call, yesterday, at the opening ceremony of the 62nd Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. President Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora, expressed concerns over the vulnerability of the country’s health care system while explaining measures taken by his administration to ensure improvement in primary health care delivery in Nigeria. He said: “I expect that this conference will bring to light more practicable solutions for improving the health care system in Nigeria and you will justify the confidence reposed in you in this regard as top grade health professionals. “I am delighted to be in your midst today at this 62 annual general conference cum delegate meeting of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). The participants at this event should see this as an opportunity to contribute ideas to the development of the health sector of our dear country.” The President noted that the health of the populace of any country rests on its health system structure, adding that it determines the spread and effectiveness of the health intervention as well as the quality and availability of the health personnel. He further stated that the theme of the conference, ‘Current Emergencies in Building a Resilient Health System for Nigeria: Situation Analysis and Solutions’, was not only apt but also speaks to the importance of his administration on issues of health and the overall development of the nation at this present time. “The vulnerability of our health care system is an issue of concern. As we all know, we have continued to be in and out of major epidemic outbreaks of infectious diseases such as Ebola, Lassa fever, COVID-19, etc, over the years. “The Nigerian health system is faced with challenges such as access to health care services, especially in rural areas; availability of relevant health personnel; affordability of healthcare services, among other critical issues. “This administration has remained unrelenting when it comes to building a resilient health system in Nigeria. A lot of measures have been put in place to strengthen our health system and these include instituting policies aimed at improving primary health care delivery in Nigeria through saving one million lives for results and the basic health care provision fund,” he said. President Buhari also blamed the existing problems within the health system on the fragmented system of governance and coordination, saying, “poor and dilapidated health facilities, shortage of human resources and poor funding remain clogs in the wheel of efficient implementation.” He further disclosed that the issues were being addressed in a very deliberate and systematic manner. 