The profligate life of Nigerians manifests not only in marriage ceremonies and burial rites but in political activities and quest for political offices. Have you heard? Please, lend me your ears! Whoever wants to fly his party’s flag to serve his people or Nigeria at the highest level of the Presidency, a form just for expression of interest alone is costing the moon. And the money so paid is not refundable should he lose the nomination bid by his party. To go for President as a member of APC, you fork out N100 million; for Governorship, the price is N50 million; for the Senate, N20 million; for House of Representatives, N10 million; House of Assembly, N2 million. In PDP, to go for the presidency, it costs N40 million to give effect to the dream of applying to fly the party flag; if interested in the governorship, to pick the form it costs N21 million; Senate, N3.5 million; House of Representatives, N2.5 million and House of Assembly, N500,000. In NNPP, the nomination forms cost as follows: For President, N30 million; Governorship, N11 million; Senate, N3 million; and House of Representatives, N1.2 million. In YPP, the prices for the forms are: for the president, N20 million; Governorship, N10 million; Senate, N3 million; House of Reps, N2 million; State House of Assembly: N400, 000. SDP, form to purchase as an indication of interest in the office of president: N35 million; Governorship, N16 million; Senate, N3 million; House of Representatives, N1.7 million; and State House of Assembly, N500, 000. The party that goes by name AAC says its forms are free. All that is required for anyone to express interest in being nominated is to pay party membership fee, and if the person likes, he may make donation to it. The humongous sum of money does not include what you spend on air tickets flying up and down to all corners and crannies of the land to make consultation or show yourself, nor does it include wrapped gifts for chiefs in attendance, wives and children and for the host himself. If N100 million is paid for expression of interest in being nominated alone, N40 million; N35 million; N30 million or N20 million as the case may be, excluding expenditure warming up and rehearsing, as well as in good naturedness and generosity of heart, remembering the victims of one tragedy or the other with bags of rice and donation of nothing less than N50 million here, another N50 million there; and yet another N50 million there and more to wipe away tears and bring succour. Hangers-on are not yet in the reckoning, nor is publicity blitz factored into the expenses. All these have nothing to do with campaign funding later when the real jostling starts and throwing of mud taken as given begins. Nigeria is the poverty capital of the world, and it is the most expensive to pick up forms as expression of interest in nomination to wave the party flag for an elective office. The National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu said boldfacedly and so thoughtlessly that his party had no apologies for fixing the costs that high! No consideration whatsoever for the implications the prices have on the overall health of the nation. A man, who uses his wealth to oppress others and drag the value of life down, will himself be a victim and will be the servant of those he once ill-treated!
Conclusion: Next week. 