Sagamu, the South West community, which gave Nigeria one of the biggest boxers in the world, Anthony Joshua, will, for one week, be the centre of attention when its elite association, Sagamites Club, celebrates its 50th anniversary. The Golden Jubilee celebration, according to Sagamites Club, will feature sports, arts and philanthropy “in accordance with the club’s standards.” Speaking on the 50th anniversary programme on Wednesday at Sagamites Club House, president of the club, Otunba Seni Adetu, said, as part of the festivities lined up for the week, there will also be an “empowerment programme in line with the club’s philanthropic ideals, spiced with a lecture titled “empowering Nigerian youth for the emerging future,” which will hold on May 25 at Nandas Hotel, Sagamu. Apart from the table tennis and snooker available to guests and members of the club, Sagamu also houses the famous Green Elephant Golf Club, acclaimed as one of the best courses in the country. Lovers of music may also catch a glimpse of Africa’s top Afrobeat star, D’Banj, who is also an indigene of the community. Adetu disclosed that there would also be a gala night on May 28 at the New Club Hall, within Sagamites Clubhouse, as well as the commissioning of the club’s auditorium by former president, Olusegun Obasanjo. The 50-year-old Sagamites Club, according to an excited Adetu, has sustained a fine heritage of hard work, commitment, dedication, and uncommon discipline and is atypical of a progressive club. “From the legacy of our founding fathers, we have grown this club into a community of prestigious and integrous individuals, who have emerged leaders in their various spheres of life. To this end, we celebrate this communal league of extraordinary gentlemen, who have pledged to progressively contribute to the development of Sagamu and the advancement of the Sagamu youth. “Our 50th anniversary is a testimonial to our unity of purpose and determination to further these ideals. We embark on these celebrations as memorabilia of our rich and purpose-filled heritage.” He explained that Sagamites Club was founded in 1972 to advance the development of Sagamu and eradicate ethnic sectionalism within the community. He added, “The club also seeks to encourage Sagamu youth to aspire to and achieve academic and commercial prowess legitimately while actively championing causes that unify the people of Remo community.”