After the demise of Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi 111, expectations were high that the succession processes would be peaceful and expedited without rancour. This optimism was planked on the fact that the ancient city, with an iconic and rich monarchical history, has only one ruling house- the Atiba family. The Atiba family’s progenitor, Atiba Atobatele gave birth to 11 princes, whose family names are Agunloye  (Ladigbolu), Adesiyan, Alowolodu (Adeyemi), Olanite, Tella Agbojulogun, Adelabu, Baba Idode, Abidekun, Adediran and Adeitan. However, from inception, only Agunloye and Alowolodu families have been occupying the throne, in succession to each other. The arrangement further derived its legality from the Alaafin Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961, which gave recognition to the two branches of Atiba family, the right to occupy the throne. The influential retired Archbishop of Methodist Church, who is also a prince from Agunloye family, Most Reverend Ayo Ladigbolu, in a recent press interview, affirmed Agunloye and Alowolodu families as the two recognised by the law to occupy the Alaafin throne. The succession chair was therefore expected to swing expeditiously in favour of a candidate from the clergyman’s clan. Perhaps, deriving from such understanding, Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, during his condolence visit to the ancient city, tasked the king makers, Oyomesi, to expedite action in the succession processes, to ensure the enthronement of a new Alaafin in record time. But events thereafter have indicated that the succession processes may not be concluded in the “record time” that is being officially envisaged. This has to do with contentions being raised by other nine branches of Atiba Royal family, who are determined to end the regime of monopoly of Agunloye and Alowolodu children in ascension to the throne, which has led to their own alleged marginalisation. The first salvo was fired by the Head of Olawoyin Family in Oyo, Prince Tijani Adebayo Olawoyin Atiba, who pointed out that an amendment to the 1961 Chieftaincy Declaration by Oyo State government in 1976 has now accommodated all the 11 children of Atiba on the list of rightful occupiers to the ancient throne. Olawoyin Atiba posited that the Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961 is a stale document that cannot be used for succession to Alaafin’s throne. “To put the record straight and for the purpose of clarity, the attention of the governor is drawn to the extant declaration and overt position of government as expressly, succinctly and copiously reflected in the letter dated 8th December, 1976…which declared the chieftaincy declaration on Alaafin in 1961 as defective and has directed the Chieftaincy Committee of the defunct Oyo Southern Local Government Council to prepare a new declaration, providing for only one ruling house to include all the descendants of Atiba.” After the coronation of Oba Lamidi Adeyemi 111, the state government set up a panel headed by Adekunle Ladeinde in 1973, to look into the 1961 Alaafin Chieftaincy Declaration. The panel’s submission, which was endorsed by the state government in 1976, approved Atiba as the umbrella ruling house, with all the 11 legacy princes having the right to contest for the coveted throne. This amendment, which has been gazetted, was forwarded to Oyo South Local Government Council for implementation. Following up on this, the nine families which had all along been excluded from ascending the throne, have also joined forces in demanding for the actualisation of the 1976 chieftaincy declaration amendment, which has vested them the right to vie for the throne. The protesting nine families, which included Adesiyan, Tella Okitipapa, Olanite, Tella Agbojulogun, Adelabu, Baba Idode, Abidekun, Adediran and Adeitan, frowned at what they alleged to be an attempt to sidetrack what has been gazetted by the state government in the selection process of a new Alaafin. Their spokesman, Mogaji Afolabi Adeitan of the Adeitan family stressed the need for the Oyomesi (kingmakers) to be guided by the amendment to the 1961 Chieftaincy Declaration, in the interest of peace, justice and equity. According to him, “it is very wrong and illegal to claim that we have just the Alowolodu and Agunloye families as the only two ruling houses in Oyo. The report of a Commission of Enquiry, as attested to in a letter written to the then Oyo Local Council on 8 December, 1976, had declared the Alaafin of Oyo Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961 as defective for failing to accommodate the other nine royal families. “In the interest of peace, fairness, equity and justice, we hereby appeal to the Oyo State governor, Engr Seyi Makinde to look into all these documents and act accordingly.” The spokesman further pointed out that a White Paper issued in 1995 and also contained in the Oyo State Gazette no 27, volume 26, July 16, 2001 and signed by the then Secretary to the State Government, prescribed that a system be designed to ensure the implementation of the 1976 amendment to the Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961. Meanwhile, the Adesiyan family has forwarded its expression of interest to vie for the throne, even as 20 princes from Agunloye family have shown interest in succeeding Oba Lamidi Adeyemi 111. The Adesiyan family, in its claim to the throne, averred that its progenitor was the second eldest child of Atiba Atobatele and was indeed offered the throne after the demise of Adelu Agunloye. According to the Mogaji Designate of Adesiyan family, Prince Lamidi Adesiyan, “after the demise of Atiba, the crown prince, Adelu Agunloye succeeded him. Adesiyan, the next eldest son was asked to ascend the throne after the death of Adelu Agunloye but he turned down the offer on grounds of ill health and persistent cough. He was then asked to nominate another person and he picked his younger brother, Adeniran Adeyemi, who was at that time, living with him.” This development, he said, was stated in the iconic publication- “The History Of The Yorubas” by Rev Samuel Johnson on page 402. “Since then, ascessions to the throne have been between Agunloye and Adeyemi Alowolodu. When Alaafin Adeniran Adeyemi11 was dethroned and sent on exile, Bashorun came to Ile Ekerin, asking Adesiyan to succeed the dethroned Alaafin. Again, the family, due to its strong moral firmament, turned down the offer on the ground that Adeniran was their brother and only on exile and so far he was alive, it would not be morally right to accept the offer. “Here comes another opportunity and it is just right for Adesiyan or any other Atiba descendants that are being sidelined to ascend the throne.” But Agunloye family has insisted that the status quo be maintained and the ascension be limited to it and Adeyemi Alowolodu family. There are already infighting even within the Agunloye family, as 28 of the legacy children are up against any member of Lawani Agogo Ija branch from vying for the throne. The Head of the Mogaji Isale Oja Agunloye, Abdulkareem Ishaq explained that Agunloye gave birth to 29 children and the family of one of them, Lawani Agogo Ija has produced Alaafin three times. It is now the turn of one of the 28 remaining families to produce the next Alaafin, despite interest being shown by Agogo Ija children. Meanwhile, the nine families within the Atiba umbrella, who have been protesting against their age long marginalisation have resolved to seek legal redress, if the Chieftaincy Declaration of 1961 as amended in 1976 is not honoured in the choice of candidate for the legendary throne. Ade Ogidan is a Lagos-based freelance journalist and media consultant. 