 Amber Heard | Image: JASIN BOLAND/WARNER BROS Actress Amber Heard, claims that her position in the upcoming superhero film Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom was cut to its minimum due to her current legal issues with ex-husband Johnny Depp. However, Heard’s claims have were refuted by DC Films CEO Walter Hamada who asserted that her lack of chemistry with co-star Jason Momoa resulted in her roles to be reduced. According to Hamada, the decision was taken because Heard didn’t get along with actor Jason Momoa. She also stated that she fought hard to keep her job and that Warner Bros. intended to fire her. Warner Bros wanted Depp to withdraw from the third Fantastic Beasts film for grounds related to the issue. During the trial, Heard stated that the legal issues and charges had harmed her career, and that her position in the second Aquaman picture had been curtailed as a result. In Hamada’s testimony, he noted that, “They didn’t have a lot of chemistry together” which he explained as the reason Heard’s roles were cut down. He added, “The reality is it’s not uncommon on movies for two leads to not have chemistry and it’s sort of movie magic and editorial the ability to put performances with the magic of a great score and how you put the pieces together, you can fabricate that chemistry. At the end of the day when you watch the movie, it looks like they have great chemistry. But I just know that through the course of postproduction, it took a lot of effort to get there. Sometimes you just put characters together on the screen and they work. It’s like what makes a movie star a movie star. You know it when you see it. The chemistry wasn’t there. This one was more difficult because of lack of chemistry between the two.” According to Heard, in a testimony concerning why her roles where cut down, she said, “I had to fight really hard to keep my career. After I got my temporary restraining order, I lost opportunities. I got canceled from jobs. I got dropped from a campaign I had shot. I fought to keep my job in the biggest movie opportunity I had to date Justice League, with the option for Aquaman.” This corresponds to what Heard’s representation previously stated as the rationale for WB’s decision to reduce her involvement. She further stated in her testimony, “I was given a script, then given new versions of the script that had taken away scenes that had action in it, that depicted my character and another character without giving any spoilers away — two characters fighting with one another. They basically took a bunch out of my role. They just removed a bunch.” Johnny Depp sued Heard for an op-ed she penned in 2018, claiming she was attacked by an anonymous boyfriend, while Heard filed a counter-suit.