Terrorists who, last week, threatened to kill passengers they abducted during the March 28, 2022 Abuja-Kaduna train attack have withdrawn the ultimatum. The abductors had vowed to execute the passengers unless the Federal Government met their demands, including release of eight children held by the Nigerian military in Jimeta, Adamawa State. A Kaduna-based publisher, Tukur Mamu, who disclosed the matter, said the terrorists dropped the idea after security agents were able to locate the children. He said the terrorists, nevertheless, urged the Federal Government to hasten release of the children. Mamu, who is the spokesman of a prominent Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, said: “I can authoritatively confirm that the earlier threat to stop feeding the over 60 abducted passengers of the Abuja-Kaduna bound train and start executing the victims was successfully withdrawn on Saturday afternoon.” He noted: “This was as a result of ongoing engagement with the Abu Barra-led abductors. This is a good development, even though for issues that have to do with the safety of the victims, to ensure continuation of engagement with the abductors and build confidence, we would not elaborate on this latest development, which comes less than 48 hours after the release of another threatening video of the kidnapped victims. “We were able to identify the location of their eight children with the active support of security agencies and eventually sent a proof of life and their children’s existence to the terrorists, a development that has helped to restore confidence.” Mamu affirmed that a temporary truce that would enable government facilitate action was reached with the abductors. He said: “As a result of serious and frank engagement, they have agreed to continue to take care of their victims, including providing them with medical First Aid services. “Also, they have withdrawn earlier threats to start killing them by Monday. I believe this is a major milestone that was facilitated by Almighty Allah to grant succour, not only to the innocent victims but also to their loved ones as well.” 