• Says running not for pocket money
• Promises Ondo lofty industrialisation, seaport
• Gov allays Tinubu’s fears on consensus candidate Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary election, national leader of the party and presidential aspirant, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, has appealed to Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to support his ambition. He affirmed the importance of the governor’s support to his presidential ambition as successor of President Muhammadu Buhari, declaring that he was not in the race for pecuniary reasons. “I beg Akeredolu to join me to revive our first national anthem. And I am ready to serve Nigeria and I promise that the country will see prosperity and performance because I have done it before,” he stated. He declared that he remains the only one to lead the party to victory in 2023, urging the delegates to rate him above other aspirants during the primary elections. Tinubu, who spoke, yesterday, at a meeting with the Ondo State APC delegates at the Cocoa Conference Hall of the Governor’s Office in Akure, attributed Nigeria’s problems to disunity and despondency. He declared that he was the “sole runner” in the race, assuring Nigerians that he would restore the spirit of unity and brightness of hope to myriad of problems facing the nation. He said: “If we look at the missing part of the past, we will stay depressed, but if we look straight into future like a great runner, we will see brightness and happiness. The former Lagos State governor added that he was not in the race to amass wealth but to bring dividends of democracy to the people and make Nigeria better. MEANWHILE, Akeredolu has allayed the fears of Tinubu on consensus rumours, saying: “A number of aspirants have been here. You can see the difference. You must be able to accept the fact that Asiwaju has done a lot. “We have noticed that Asiwaju has criss-crossed the length and breadth of this country. When you hear news of consensus or endorsement, do not believe. We have said it that the presidency must come to the South. Governors have spoken. “By the grace of God, the train of this country must continue to have a smooth ride. The country cannot be divided. Nigeria should be paramount in the hearts of all of us. As you go to vote, think about Nigeria and investment all over the years.” “But you must look at the background and capacity of the person. We wish you the best. You have our good wishes as you proceed. It is only God that will enthrone anybody.” 