A 200- Level student of Home Economics at Shehu Shagari College of Education was yesterday, lynched by fellow students for alleged blasphemy against Prophet Muhammad. The student, identified as Deborah Yakubu, allegedly shared the offensive message in a school Whatsapp group. Sources said that the said message drew the ire of students, who overpowered school security, beat her to death and set the body on fire. According to a source, “she was having an argument with some of her schoolmates over their ongoing examination and when she was asked how she managed to pass her exams, she said it was Jesus. “She was asked to withdraw the statement and apologise, which she refused. “The school security intervened, took her to their post, but they were overpowered by students after which she was killed in the process. “After killing her, her remains was set ablaze and burnt beyond recognition in the school premises,” the source added. MEANWHILE, the management has shut down the institution to avoid escalation of the situation. “Following today’s early morning Students rampage in the College, the College Management has resolved to close down the College indefinitely with immediate effect. “Consequently, all students are hereby directed to vacate the College campus immediately,” the school said in a statement.  The mob  “The Sultanate Council has learnt with dismay the unfortunate happenings at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, (SSCOE) Sokoto, that led to the loss of life of a female student of the Institution. “The Sultanate Council condemned the incident in its totality and has urged the security agencies to bring perpetrators of the unjustifiable incident to justice. “The Sultanate Council has urged all to remain calm and ensure peaceful co-existence among all people of the State and nation,” the statement said. On its part, the state government announced immediate closure of the school and asked all students to vacate the school premises forthwith. Sokoto State Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Isah Bajini Galadanci, at a press briefing held at the Exco chamber of the Government House declared that, the state government ordered the immediate closure of the college. Alhaji Galadanci said: “It has come to the notice of Sokoto State Government, the unfortunate incident that took place at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, in which a student of the college was killed. “Already, the state Governor Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has directed the Ministry of Higher Education and relevant security agencies in the state to commence investigations into the remote and immediate causes of the incident and report back to Government.” Recall that in March last year, some angry youths in the Sade community in the Darazo Local Council of Bauchi State burnt a man identified as Talle Mai Ruwa to death for allegedly insulting Prophet Muhammad. Reports said the victim was dragged away from his house in the presence of his mother and burnt to death in the middle of the community. 