One of the presidential aspirants in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and founder of Belemaoil and Belema Aid Foundation has said that he is not intimidated by the number of aspirants in the party, saying that his value and content are enough for him to defeat others. Jack Rich, who spoke with journalists after his meeting with the delegates over the weekend, said that Nigerians need to employ a competent and an agent of development to drive the economy to prosperity. “I realised that the relationship and the opportunity that God has given to us is to build bridges and also to enable us to help those who are looking for opportunities to have a pathway to that opportunity so that they can become the bridge builders and gateways,” Rich said. “I’m here not because I had a lot. I’m here because I need to serve my country and the interest to create opportunities and connect people cannot be compromised for anything. “We have to vote for someone who has the capacity to change this great nation. We also need someone that can take it up from President Muhammadu Buhari and build on it. We need a president that is a development agent, Nigeria needs a president that will be able to pay her debts and bring the right economic blueprint so that youths can have jobs. Someone who can ensure social welfare and social security,” he said. Rich urged the delegates not to be coerced by politicians’ dollars who might abandon them after getting their votes. “I’m here to tell you the delegates that APC being our party, the most populous and largest on the continent of Africa has given us the platform to showcase our talents and pursue an ideology to work together. “I’m here because I need your votes and support but because I’m a son of the soil of this great state. I’m here because I want partners so that we can work together for our communities to create opportunities for our state. We can be the engine that drives the most important interest that binds us together.” He lamented that most young boys and girls who have dreams have been pushed to take the negative side of life as their societies left them behind. Rich said that he was aware that the delegates must have worked for many politicians while many of them must have met them to vote for them who may later ignore their people. He pledged not to take their support for granted. Meanwhile, Malam Isa Yuguda, a former governor of Bauchi State who is the Director-General of Jack Rich Campaign Organisation urged the delegates to give their support to the man he described as the “best” choice for the job. 