Changing your web hosting provider can be a hassle, and you might lose critical data if you don’t take the proper steps to protect your files. The good thing is that anyone can switch web hosting providers, regardless of the depth of their technical knowledge. However, if you cannot migrate your website to the new provider on your own, you can take advantage of free migration services from your new host. Whether you are having trouble with reliability, speed, customer support, or another aspect of your current web hosting setup, migrating to a new provider can help you improve your experience and potentially cut costs. This article will walk you through the steps involved in switching between web hosting providers. Whether you’re planning to manually migrate or use a migration service, we’ll outline all the information you need to achieve a fast and seamless transition. Once you’ve identified the provider that’s right for you, you can migrate. Different hosts have different advantages and disadvantages and are built for websites with various web hosting needs. There are several important factors to consider when looking for a new hosting provider: pricing, server uptime, loading speeds, customer support and service variety. Your decision to switch web hosting providers will depend on whether you’re planning to handle the migration yourself or not. You can use some free hosting migration tools that will connect to the database on your original site and then transfer the data to your new provider. Manual migration is much more complex, however, and if you are inexperienced, you may have a hard time following the entire process. Most hosting providers offer in-built migration tools, so you’ll be able to transfer your site free of charge. Then, based on your specifications, a customer service agent will handle the technical side of the migration. To start the process, enter the credentials you use to log in to your old provider, and your new provider will take it from there. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khdnP0rNWUA Before running your migration, it is essential that you backup your entire website database and any files and emails. Once your files have been backed up, you can start migrating without any risk of losing your files. First, you’ll need to export your database to your computer, after which you will create a database at your new provider. This is where you’ll upload the information you just exported, but before doing that, you will edit the config.php file in the exported database to prepare it for your new hosting provider. Export Your Database Different providers offer database access in different ways, but most people use the phpMyAdmin interface. From the left-hand menu in phpMyAdmin,  select the database you want to download. Create a New Database Now that you have a database ready to plug into your new host, you can set up a new database with your new provider. With your new host set up, you can finally switch your site’s domain name system to their servers. This is usually done by pointing your domain to the nameservers of the new web hosting provider. Once your website is up and running with the new host, you may consider transferring the domain name completely. You would need to retrieve the EPP code for this purpose and also unlock the domain name. If you registered your domain name through the hosting provider you’re leaving, their customer support team should be able to assist you transfer it to another host. Remember to run a thorough test of your site once the operation is complete. There might have been some issues during the migration, and it is vital to identify them quickly so you can fix the problem before deleting the old hosting account. You should check every page from the old site to confirm that it’s still accessible and directs to the same URL. Use a link checker to look for broken links on your newly transferred site. Having fully set up your site with your new hosting provider, you can safely cancel your old hosting account and cut ties with your old provider. Be sure to do this as soon as possible to avoid any unnecessary charges. Your backed up files should be safely stored in case of any future issues. To avoid the hassle and technical difficulties that may accompany site migration, we recommend you consult experts if you cannot do it yourself. You’re making the best decision if you’re considering Web4Africa as your new web hosting company. Reliability, speed, customer support, and aspect web hosting setup is guaranteed.Established in 2002, Web4Africa is a leading web hosting company offering super-fast web hosting, WordPress hosting, virtual server hosting, domain names, SSL certificates and related services to clients worldwide. Web4Africa has a presence in 5 data centres across 4 African countries.