• ‘Mexico, Ecuador friendlies are good introductory games for Peseiro’ Super Eagles new first assistant coach, Finidi George, has revealed that the new technical crew, led by Jose Peseiro, will give more home-based players the opportunity to challenge for shirts in the senior national team. Finidi, who described Nigeria’s forthcoming international friendlies against Mexico and Ecuador as good introductory games for Peseiro, assured all Nigerian footballers that everybody qualified to play for the country will get the chance to stake his claim to the team, advised the home-based stars to focus on improving their game. Nigeria will meet Mexico and Ecuador in two U.S. cities on May 28 and June 2 respectively. Speaking on plans for the games, which come after Nigeria’s failure to qualify for Qatar 2023 World Cup, Finidi said the process of building a new team wouldn’t have been made easier than with two games against two already established sides preparing for the Copa Mundial. He added that the games would present Peseiro an opportunity to assess the players available for selection ahead of the Cote d’Ivoire 2023 Africa Cup Of Nations qualifier against Sierra Leone next month. Expressing delight at being given the opportunity to contribute to Super Eagles’ resuscitation after the failure to qualify for the World Cup, Finidi acknowledged that the task ahead for the Peseiro-led technical crew is enormous, adding, however, that with adequate support from all stakeholders, Nigerians will see an indomitable team. He assured all the players invited to the national team camp of equal opportunity to fight for shirts in the emerging team, adding that the Super Eagles would soon return to their old glory. “The friendlies would be used to assess players and work out modalities to transform the Super Eagles to the level it belongs. Because Peseiro is new with the Eagles, we, the assistants, have resolved to guide him where necessary and make him comfortable in the terrain when he arrives in Nigeria.” Finidi also said he still maintains his job at Enyimba, adding that the two roles would not clash because they are well defined. “Working with Enyimba has opened my eyes to the workings of the local league. Now, we will create more opportunities for NPFL players and ensure that only the best available Nigerians, no matter where they are based, get the chance to play for Nigeria.” On alleged interference in team selection by Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) officials, Finidi said: “I have not worked with the Super Eagles before, so, I don’t know if such exists. My mission now is to give my best to the national assignment given to me by the NFF. This is another opportunity for me to work for my country after retirement from playing for the Super Eagles years ago,” he said. 