Stakeholders in the Nigerian power sector, yesterday, in Abuja, insisted that the safety of workers, infrastructure and quality assurance remain critical leeway if Nigeria must improve efficiency, reduce redundancy and ensure adequate supply of electricity to homes. This is coming as Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), operator of Kainji and Jebba hydropower plants said three new global operational certifications added to its portfolio would ensure quality assurance and customer satisfaction as its plants would be optimised for efficiency while aiming at zero casualty. The International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certification included ISO 9001-2015 on Quality Management Service, ISO 14001:2015 on Environmental Management System and ISO 45001:2018 for Occupational Health and Safety Management System. Speaking at the event, Managing Director of MESL, Lamu Audu, noted that it remained critical to generate electricity in a sustainable manner. According to him, electricity must be generated in a safe and reliable manner, adding that the organisation is committed to best practices in the sector. Lamu said the certification would improve the quest for excellent service delivery as well as health and safety. Chairman of the MESL Board, Sani Bello disclosed that while the company’s plants are critical, the two plants have not recorded casualties. “ISO certification is about innovation, processes and procedures for driving occupational businesses and improvement. The certification reflects the company’s vision which makes it special, since it assures the customers and stakeholders that their partnership with Mainstream is not misplaced, but rather in line with providing good services to the people, by maximizing its output to the national grid,” he said. He said the company is committed to improving capacity and strengthening power generation to the national grid. Speaking at the official presentation of the certificate, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) said the country’s hydro power plant currently being operated by MESL is being operated according to necessary technical requirements approved by the regulator. Representative of NERC at the event, Mohammed Imam commended the efforts being made by the organisation to improve power supply in the country. The Head, Health and Safety, MESL, Prisca Iwunze told The Guardian that the development would standardise the company’s process and procedures for improved operations, including optimization that would increase output. She added that the development would also enable the company to analyze hazards and reduce risks. She noted that relevant stakeholders are being engaged to ensure maximum results, stressing that the certification would promote good quality, health and safety management. “We celebrated our five-million-man hour without loss time incident in June 2020 and till date the chain has not been broken,” she noted. 