Nigerian Medical Association  (NMA) has threatened to mobilise against aspirants in the  2023 elections who have  no clarity of ideas on how to revitalise the nation’s collapsing health sector. The President of NMA, Prof. Innocent Ujah, while speaking in Port Harcourt, Rivers state yesterday,  as part of activities to mark the  62nd Annual  General  Conference and Delegates meeting of the association,  said days  were  gone when politicians would promise to provide water, electricity,  healthcare during campaigns but later failed to keep to their promises, describing the strategy as old fashioned jokes. He said: “All politicians aspiring for presidential, senatorial, governorship, assembly  seats must define clearly  their role to revitalise the health  sector; otherwise,  we will be forced to mobilise  our patients and their spouses to vote against  anyone  who does not take health  seriously. “We are tired of hearing  ‘we will provide health facilities’.  Now, you must give us details on how you will do it. We have passed the stage of campaign that says, ‘I will provide water, electricity,’ now you have to show practical steps of how you will achieve it.” Ujah, a consultant obstetrician and gynaecological surgeon, maintained that government  must be very strategic, up its game  and  work to rescue  the  nation’s  health  system, which he described as in a state of ‘total collapse’. He blamed brain drain in the sector on the nation’s poor health sector: “We are preparing a document to submit  to government  that will  form a policy;  also the  health  reform committee  of the  Federal  Government  should  be able to come out, to see what they can do in the situation  we found ourselves.” He explained that the brain drain started in 1978 with the introduction of the private practice decree in Nigeria, when some people moved out from the country. “We have produced about 80,000 doctors and today we are left with about  50,000. The rest are either in Europe, America, Saudi Arabia, Canada or Caribbean because no body wants to be highly trained, cerebral and be getting peanuts. Everybody wants the family  to be comfortable.  So, they leave for the green pastures,” he lamented